FIRST STORY

There was once upon a time an old fox with nine tails, who believed that
      his wife was not faithful to him, and wished to put her to the test. He
      stretched himself out under the bench, did not move a limb, and behaved as
      if he were stone dead. Mrs Fox went up to her room, shut herself in, and
      her maid, Miss Cat, sat by the fire, and did the cooking. When it became
      known that the old fox was dead, suitors presented themselves. The maid
      heard someone standing at the house-door, knocking. She went and opened
      it, and it was a young fox, who said:

She answered:

‘No, thank you, miss,’ said the fox, ‘what is Mrs Fox doing?’ The maid
      replied:

‘Do just tell her, miss, that a young fox is here, who would like to woo
      her.’ ‘Certainly, young sir.’

‘Has he nine as beautiful tails as the late Mr Fox?’ ‘Oh, no,’ answered
      the cat, ‘he has only one.’ ‘Then I will not have him.’

Miss Cat went downstairs and sent the wooer away. Soon afterwards there
      was another knock, and another fox was at the door who wished to woo Mrs
      Fox. He had two tails, but he did not fare better than the first. After
      this still more came, each with one tail more than the other, but they
      were all turned away, until at last one came who had nine tails, like old
      Mr Fox. When the widow heard that, she said joyfully to the cat:

But just as the wedding was going to be solemnized, old Mr Fox stirred
      under the bench, and cudgelled all the rabble, and drove them and Mrs Fox
      out of the house.

SECOND STORY

When old Mr Fox was dead, the wolf came as a suitor, and knocked at the
      door, and the cat who was servant to Mrs Fox, opened it for him. The wolf
      greeted her, and said:

The cat replied:

‘No, thank you, Mrs Cat,’ answered the wolf. ‘Is Mrs Fox not at home?’

The cat said:

The wolf answered:

Mrs Fox asked: ‘Has the gentleman red stockings on, and has he a pointed
      mouth?’ ‘No,’ answered the cat. ‘Then he won’t do for me.’

When the wolf was gone, came a dog, a stag, a hare, a bear, a lion, and
      all the beasts of the forest, one after the other. But one of the good
      qualities which old Mr Fox had possessed, was always lacking, and the cat
      had continually to send the suitors away. At length came a young fox. Then
      Mrs Fox said: ‘Has the gentleman red stockings on, and has a little
      pointed mouth?’ ‘Yes,’ said the cat, ‘he has.’ ‘Then let him come
      upstairs,’ said Mrs Fox, and ordered the servant to prepare the wedding
      feast.

Then the wedding was solemnized with young Mr Fox, and there was much
      rejoicing and dancing; and if they have not left off, they are dancing
      still.