It was five minutes past nine when I entered our joint sitting-room for
breakfast on the following morning.

My friend Poirot, exact to the minute as usual, was just tapping the shell of
his second egg.

He beamed upon me as I entered.

“You have slept well, yes? You have recovered from the crossing so
terrible? It is a marvel, almost you are exact this morning.Pardon, but
your tie is not symmetrical. Permit that I rearrange him.”

Elsewhere, I have described Hercule Poirot. An extraordinary little man!
Height, five feet four inches, egg-shaped head carried a little to one side,
eyes that shone green when he was excited, stiff military moustache, air of
dignity immense! He was neat and dandified in appearance. For neatness of any
kind, he had an absolute passion. To see an ornament set crooked, or a speck of
dust, or a slight disarray in one’s attire, was torture to the little man
until he could ease his feelings by remedying the matter. “Order”
and “Method” were his gods. He had a certain disdain for tangible
evidence, such as footprints and cigarette ash, and would maintain that, taken
by themselves, they would never enable a detective to solve a problem. Then he
would tap his egg-shaped head with absurd complacency, and remark with great
satisfaction: “The true work, it is done fromwithin.The
little grey cells—remember always the little grey cells,mon
ami!”

I slipped into my seat, and remarked idly, in answer to Poirot’s
greeting, that an hour’s sea passage from Calais to Dover could hardly be
dignified by the epithet “terrible.”

Poirot waved his egg-spoon in vigorous refutation of my remark.

“Du tout!If for an hour one experiences sensations and emotions
of the most terrible, one has lived many hours! Does not one of your English
poets say that time is counted, not by hours, but by heart-beats?”

“I fancy Browning was referring to something more romantic than sea
sickness, though.”

“Because he was an Englishman, an Islander to whomla Manchewas
nothing. Oh, you English! Withnous autresit is different. Figure to
yourself that a lady of my acquaintance at the beginning of the war fled to
Ostend. There she had a terrible crisis of the nerves. Impossible to escape
further except by crossing the sea! And she had a horror—mais une
horreur!—of the sea! What was she to do? Dailyles Bocheswere
drawing nearer. Imagine to yourself the terrible situation!”

“What did she do?” I inquired curiously.

“Fortunately her husband washomme pratique. He was also very
calm, the crises of the nerves, they affected him not.Il l’a emportée
simplement!Naturally when she reached England she was prostrate, but she
still breathed.”

Poirot shook his head seriously. I composed my face as best I could.

Suddenly he stiffened and pointed a dramatic finger at the toast rack.

“Ah, par exemple, c’est trop fort!” he cried.

“What is it?”

“This piece of toast. You remark him not?” He whipped the offender
out of the rack, and held it up for me to examine.

“Is it square? No. Is it a triangle? Again no. Is it even round? No. Is
it of any shape remotely pleasing to the eye? What symmetry have we here?
None.”

“It’s cut from a cottage loaf,” I explained soothingly.

Poirot threw me a withering glance.