Françoise had left the room. The magistrate was drumming thoughtfully on the
table.

“M. Bex,” he said at length, “here we have directly
conflicting testimony. Which are we to believe, Françoise or Denise?”

“Denise,” said the commissary decidedly. “It was she who let
the visitor in. Françoise is old and obstinate, and has evidently taken a
dislike to Madame Daubreuil. Besides, our own knowledge tends to show that
Renauld was entangled with another woman.”

“Tiens!” cried M. Hautet. “We have forgotten to inform
M. Poirot of that.” He searched amongst the papers on the table, and
finally handed the one he was in search of to my friend. “This letter, M.
Poirot, we found in the pocket of the dead man’s overcoat.”

Poirot took it and unfolded it. It was somewhat worn and crumbled, and was
written in English in a rather unformed hand:

“My dearest one:”Why have you not written for so long? You do love me still, don’t you?
Your letters lately have been so different, cold and strange, and now this long
silence. It makes me afraid. If you were to stop loving me! But that’s
impossible—what a silly kid I am—always imagining things! But if
youdidstop loving me, I don’t know what I should do—kill
myself perhaps! I couldn’t live without you. Sometimes I fancy another
woman is coming between us. Let her look out, that’s all—and you
too! I’d as soon kill you as let her have you! I mean it.“But there, I’m writing high-flown nonsense. You love me, and I
love you—yes, love you, love you, love you!

“Your own adoring“BELLA.”

There was no address or date. Poirot handed it back with a grave face.

“And the assumption is, M. le juge—?”

The examining magistrate shrugged his shoulders.

“Obviously M. Renauld was entangled with this Englishwoman—Bella.
He comes over here, meets Madame Daubreuil, and starts an intrigue with her. He
cools off to the other, and she instantly suspects something. This letter
contains a distinct threat. M. Poirot, at first sight the case seemed
simplicity itself. Jealousy! The fact that M. Renauld was stabbed in the back
seemed to point distinctly to its being a woman’s crime.”

Poirot nodded.

“The stab in the back, yes—but not the grave! That was laborious
work, hard work—no woman dug that grave, monsieur. That was a man’s
doing.”

The commissary exclaimed excitedly: “Yes, yes, you are right. We did not
think of that.”

“As I said,” continued M. Hautet, “at first sight the case
seemed simple, but the masked men, and the letter you received from M. Renauld
complicate matters. Here we seem to have an entirely different set of
circumstances, with no relationship between the two. As regards the letter
written to yourself, do you think it is possible that it referred in any way to
this ‘Bella,’ and her threats?”

Poirot shook his head.

“Hardly. A man like M. Renauld, who has led an adventurous life in
out-of-the-way places, would not be likely to ask for protection against a
woman.”

The examining magistrate nodded his head emphatically.

“My view exactly. Then we must look for the explanation of the
letter—”

“In Santiago,” finished the commissary. “I shall cable
without delay to the police in that city, requesting full details of the
murdered man’s life out there, his love affairs, his business
transactions, his friendships, and any enmities he may have incurred. It will
be strange if, after that, we do not hold a clue to his mysterious
murder.”