We found M. Hautet awaiting us in the hall, and we all proceeded upstairs
together, Françoise marching ahead to show us the way. Poirot went up in a
zigzag fashion which puzzled me, until he whispered with a grimace:

“No wonder the servants heard M. Renauld mounting the stairs; not a board
of them but creaks fit to wake the dead!”

At the head of the staircase, a small passage branched off.

“The servants’ quarters,” explained Bex.

We continued along a corridor, and Françoise tapped on the last door to the
right of it.

A faint voice bade us enter, and we passed into a large sunny apartment looking
out towards the sea, which showed blue and sparkling about a quarter of a mile
distant.

On a couch, propped up with cushions, and attended by Dr. Durand, lay a tall,
striking-looking woman. She was middle-aged, and her once dark hair was now
almost entirely silvered, but the intense vitality and strength of her
personality would have made itself felt anywhere. You knew at once that you
were in the presence of what the French call “une maitresse
femme.”

She greeted us with a dignified inclination of the head.

“Pray be seated, monsieurs.”

We took chairs, and the magistrate’s clerk established himself at a round
table.

“I hope, madame,” began M. Hautet, “that it will not distress
you unduly to relate to us what occurred last night?”

“Not at all, monsieur. I know the value of time, if these scoundrelly
assassins are to be caught and punished.”

“Very well, madame. It will fatigue you less, I think, if I ask you
questions and you confine yourself to answering them. At what time did you go
to bed last night?”

“At half-past nine, monsieur. I was tired.”

“And your husband?”

“About an hour later, I fancy.”

“Did he seem disturbed—upset in any way?”

“No, not more than usual.”

“What happened then?”

“We slept. I was awakened by a hand being pressed over my mouth. I tried
to scream out, but the hand prevented me. There were two men in the room. They
were both masked.”