Between them, the doctor and M. Hautet carried the unconscious woman into the
house. The commissary looked after them, shaking his head.

“Pauvre femme,” he murmured to himself. “The shock was
too much for her. Well, well, we can do nothing. Now, M. Poirot, shall we visit
the place where the crime was committed?”

“If you please, M. Bex.”

We passed through the house, and out by the front door. Poirot had looked up at
the staircase in passing, and shook his head in a dissatisfied manner.

“It is to me incredible that the servants heard nothing. The creaking of
that staircase, withthreepeople descending it, would awaken the
dead!”

“It was the middle of the night, remember. They were sound asleep by
then.”

But Poirot continued to shake his head as though not fully accepting the
explanation. On the sweep of the drive, he paused, looking up at the house.

“What moved them in the first place to try if the front door were open?
It was a most unlikely thing that it should be. It was far more probable that
they should at once try to force a window.”

“But all the windows on the ground floor are barred with iron
shutters,” objected the commissary.

Poirot pointed to a window on the first floor.

“That is the window of the bedroom we have just come from, is it not? And
see—there is a tree by which it would be the easiest thing in the world
to mount.”

“Possibly,” admitted the other. “But they could not have done
so without leaving footprints in the flower-bed.”

I saw the justice of his words. There were two large oval flower-beds planted
with scarlet geraniums, one each side of the steps leading up to the front
door. The tree in question had its roots actually at the back of the bed
itself, and it would have been impossible to reach it without stepping on the
bed.

“You see,” continued the commissary, “owing to the dry
weather no prints would show on the drive or paths; but, on the soft mould of
the flower-bed, it would have been a very different affair.”

Poirot went close to the bed and studied it attentively. As Bex had said, the
mould was perfectly smooth. There was not an indentation on it anywhere.

Poirot nodded, as though convinced, and we turned away, but he suddenly darted
off and began examining the other flower-bed.

“M. Bex!” he called. “See here. Here are plenty of traces for
you.”

The commissary joined him—and smiled.

“My dear M. Poirot, those are without doubt the footprints of the
gardener’s large hobnailed boots. In any case, it would have no
importance, since this side we have no tree, and consequently no means of
gaining access to the upper story.”

“True,” said Poirot, evidently crestfallen. “So you think
these footprints are of no importance?”