As we retraced our steps to the house, M. Bex excused himself for leaving us,
explaining that he must immediately acquaint the examining magistrate with the
fact of Giraud’s arrival. Giraud himself had been obviously delighted
when Poirot declared that he had seen all he wanted. The last thing we
observed, as we left the spot, was Giraud, crawling about on all fours, with a
thoroughness in his search that I could not but admire. Poirot guessed my
thoughts, for as soon as we were alone he remarked ironically:

“At last you have seen the detective you admire—the human foxhound!
Is it not so, my friend?”

“At any rate, he’sdoingsomething,” I said, with
asperity. “If there’s anything to find, he’ll find it. Now
you—”

“Eh bien!I also have found something! A piece of
lead-piping.”

“Nonsense, Poirot. You know very well that’s got nothing to do with
it. I meantlittlethings—traces that may lead us infallibly to
the murderers.”

“Mon ami, a clue of two feet long is every bit as valuable as one
measuring two millimetres! But it is the romantic idea that all important clues
must be infinitesimal! As to the piece of lead-piping having nothing to do with
the crime, you say that because Giraud told you so. No”—as I was
about to interpose a question—“we will say no more. Leave Giraud to
his search, and me to my ideas. The case seems straightforward enough—and
yet—and yet,mon ami, I am not satisfied! And do you know why?
Because of the wrist watch that is two hours fast. And then there are several
curious little points that do not seem to fit in. For instance, if the object
of the murderers was revenge, why did they not stab Renauld in his sleep and
have done with it?”

“They wanted the ‘secret,’ ” I reminded him.

Poirot brushed a speck of dust from his sleeve with a dissatisfied air.

“Well, where is this ‘secret’? Presumably some distance away,
since they wish him to dress himself. Yet he is found murdered close at hand,
almost within ear-shot of the house. Then again, it is pure chance that a
weapon such as the dagger should be lying about casually, ready to hand.”

He paused frowning, and then went on:

“Why did the servants hear nothing? Were they drugged? Was there an
accomplice and did that accomplice see to it that the front door should remain
open? I wonder if—”

He stopped abruptly. We had reached the drive in front of the house. Suddenly
he turned to me.

“My friend, I am about to surprise you—to please you! I have taken
your reproaches to heart! We will examine some footprints!”

“Where?”

“In that right-hand bed yonder. M. Bex says that they are the footmarks
of the gardener. Let us see if that is so. See, he approaches with his
wheelbarrow.”

Indeed an elderly man was just crossing the drive with a barrowful of
seedlings. Poirot called to him, and he set down the barrow and came hobbling
towards us.

“You are going to ask him for one of his boots to compare with the
footmarks?” I asked breathlessly. My faith in Poirot revived a little.
Since he said the footprints in this right-hand bed were important, presumably
theywere.

“Exactly,” said Poirot.

“But won’t he think it very odd?”

“He will not think about it at all.”