We were up at the Villa betimes next morning. The man on guard at the gate did
not bar our way this time. Instead, he respectfully saluted us, and we passed
on to the house. The maid Léonie was just coming down the stairs, and seemed
not averse to the prospect of a little conversation.

Poirot inquired after the health of Mrs. Renauld.

Léonie shook her head.

“She is terribly upset,la pauvre dame!She will eat
nothing—but nothing! And she is as pale as a ghost. It is heartrending to
see her. Ah,par exemple, it is not I who would grieve like that for a
man who had deceived me with another woman!”

Poirot nodded sympathetically.

“What you say is very just, but what will you? The heart of a woman who
loves will forgive many blows. Still, undoubtedly there must have been many
scenes of recrimination between them in the last few months?”

Again Léonie shook her head.

“Never, monsieur. Never have I heard Madame utter a word of
protest—of reproach, even! She had the temper and disposition of an
angel—quite different to Monsieur.”

“Monsieur Renauld had not the temper of an angel?”

“Far from it. When he enraged himself, the whole house knew of it. The
day that he quarrelled with M. Jack—ma foi!they might have been
heard in the market place, they shouted so loud!”

“Indeed,” said Poirot. “And when did this quarrel take
place?”

“Oh! it was just before M. Jack went to Paris. Almost he missed his
train. He came out of the library, and caught up his bag which he had left in
the hall. The automobile, it was being repaired, and he had to run for the
station. I was dusting the salon, and I saw him pass, and his face was
white—white—with two burning spots of red. Ah, but he was
angry!”

Léonie was enjoying her narrative thoroughly.

“And the dispute, what was it about?”

“Ah, that I do not know,” confessed Léonie. “It is true that
they shouted, but their voices were so loud and high, and they spoke so fast,
that only one well acquainted with English could have comprehended. But
Monsieur, he was like a thundercloud all day! Impossible to please him!”

The sound of a door shutting upstairs cut short Léonie’s loquacity.

“And Françoise who awaits me!” she exclaimed, awakening to a tardy
remembrance of her duties. “That old one, she always scolds.”

“One moment, mademoiselle. The examining magistrate, where is he?”

“They have gone out to look at the automobile in the garage. Monsieur the
commissary had some idea that it might have been used on the night of the
murder.”

“Quelle idée,” murmured Poirot, as the girl disappeared.