In theSalonI found the examining magistrate busily interrogating the
old gardener Auguste. Poirot and the commissary, who were both present, greeted
me respectively with a smile and a polite bow. I slipped quietly into a seat.
M. Hautet was painstaking and meticulous in the extreme, but did not succeed in
eliciting anything of importance.

The gardening gloves Auguste admitted to be his. He wore them when handling a
certain species of primula plant which was poisonous to some people. He could
not say when he had worn them last. Certainly he had not missed them. Where
were they kept? Sometimes in one place, sometimes in another. The spade was
usually to be found in the small tool shed. Was it locked? Of course it was
locked. Where was the key kept?Parbleu, it was in the door of course!
There was nothing of value to steal. Who would have expected a party of
bandits, of assassins? Such things did not happen in Madame la
Vicomtesse’s time. M. Hautet signifying that he had finished with him,
the old man withdrew, grumbling to the last. Remembering Poirot’s
unaccountable insistence on the footprints in the flower beds, I scrutinized
him narrowly as he gave his evidence. Either he had nothing to do with the
crime or he was a consummate actor. Suddenly, just as he was going out of the
door, an idea struck me. “PardonM. Hautet,” I cried,
“but will you permit me to ask him one question?”

“But certainly, monsieur.”

Thus encouraged, I turned to Auguste.

“Where do you keep your boots?”

“Sac à papier!” growled the old man. “On my feet.
Where else?”

“But when you go to bed at night?”

“Under my bed.”

“But who cleans them?”

“Nobody. Why should they be cleaned? Is it that I promenade myself on the
front like a young man? On Sunday I wear the Sunday boots,bien entendu,
but otherwise—!” he shrugged his shoulders.

I shook my head, discouraged.

“Well, well,” said the magistrate. “We do not advance very
much. Undoubtedly we are held up until we get the return cable from Santiago.
Has any one seen Giraud? In verity that one lacks politeness! I have a very
good mind to send for him and—”

“You will not have to send far, M. le juge.”

The quiet voice startled us. Giraud was standing outside looking in through the
open window.

He leaped lightly into the room, and advanced to the table.

“Here I am, M. le juge, at your service. Accept my excuses for not
presenting myself sooner.”

“Not at all. Not at all,” said the magistrate, rather confused.

“Of course I am only a detective,” continued the other. “I
know nothing of interrogatories. Were I conducting one, I should be inclined to
do so without an open window. Any one standing outside can so easily hear all
that passes. … But no matter.”

M. Hautet flushed angrily. There was evidently going to be no love lost between
the examining magistrate and the detective in charge of the case. They had
fallen foul of each other at the start. Perhaps in any event it would have been
much the same. To Giraud, all examining magistrates were fools, and to M.
Hautet who took himself seriously, the casual manner of the Paris detective
could not fail to give offence.

“Eh bien, M. Giraud,” said the magistrate rather sharply.
“Without doubt you have been employing your time to a marvel? You have
the names of the assassins for us, have you not? And also the precise spot
where they find themselves now?”