The man who entered the room was a striking figure. Very tall, with a well knit
athletic frame, and a deeply bronzed face and neck, he dominated the assembly.
Even Giraud seemed anaemic beside him. When I knew him better I realized that
Gabriel Stonor was quite an unusual personality. English by birth, he had
knocked about all over the world. He had shot big game in Africa, travelled in
Korea, ranched in California, and traded in the South Sea Islands. He had been
secretary to a New York railway magnate, and had spent a year encamped in the
desert with a friendly tribe of Arabs.

His unerring eye picked out M. Hautet.

“The examining magistrate in charge of the case? Pleased to meet you, M.
le juge. This is a terrible business. How’s Mrs. Renauld? Is she bearing
up fairly well? It must have been an awful shock to her.”

“Terrible, terrible,” said M. Hautet. “Permit me to introduce
M. Bex—our commissary of police, M. Giraud of the Sûreté. This gentleman
is M. Hercule Poirot. M. Renauld sent for him, but he arrived too late to do
anything to avert the tragedy. A friend of M. Poirot’s, Captain
Hastings.”

Stonor looked at Poirot with some interest.

“Sent for you, did he?”

“You did not know, then, that M. Renauld contemplated calling in a
detective?” interposed M. Bex.

“No, I didn’t. But it doesn’t surprise me a bit.”

“Why?”

“Because the old man was rattled! I don’t know what it was all
about. He didn’t confide in me. We weren’t on those terms. But
rattled he was—and badly!”

“H’m!” said M. Hautet. “But you have no notion of the
cause?”

“That’s what I said, sir.”

“You will pardon me, M. Stonor, but we must begin with a few formalities.
Your name?”

“Gabriel Stonor.”

“How long ago was it that you became secretary to M. Renauld?”

“About two years ago, when he first arrived from South America. I met him
through a mutual friend, and he offered me the post. A thundering good boss he
was too.”

“Did he talk to you much about his life in South America?”

“Yes, a good bit.”

“Do you know if he was ever in Santiago?”

“Several times, I believe.”