What the next development of the conversation would have been, I cannot say,
for at that moment the door was thrown violently open, and a tall young man
strode into the room.

Just for a moment I had the uncanny sensation that the dead man had come to
life again. Then I realized that this dark head was untouched with grey, and
that, in point of fact, it was a mere boy who now burst in among us with so
little ceremony. He went straight to Mrs. Renauld with an impetuosity that took
no heed of the presence of others.

“Mother!”

“Jack!” With a cry she folded him in her arms. “My dearest!
But what brings you here? You were to sail on theAnzorafrom Cherbourg
two days ago?” Then, suddenly recalling to herself the presence of
others, she turned with a certain dignity, “My son, messieurs.”

“Aha!” said M. Hautet, acknowledging the young man’s bow.
“So you did not sail on theAnzora?”

“No, monsieur. As I was about to explain, theAnzorawas detained
twenty-four hours through engine trouble. I should have sailed last night
instead of the night before, but, happening to buy an evening paper, I saw in
it an account of the—the awful tragedy that had befallen us—”
His voice broke and the tears came into his eyes. “My poor
father—my poor, poor, father.”

Staring at him like one in a dream, Mrs. Renauld repeated: “So you did
not sail?” And then, with a gesture of infinite weariness, she murmured
as though to herself, “After all, it does not matter—now.”

“Sit down, M. Renauld, I beg of you,” said M. Hautet, indicating a
chair. “My sympathy for you is profound. It must have been a terrible
shock to you to learn the news as you did. However, it is most fortunate that
you were prevented from sailing. I am in hopes that you may be able to give us
just the information we need to clear up this mystery.”

“I am at your disposal, M. le juge. Ask me any questions you
please.”

“To begin with, I understand that this journey was being undertaken at
your father’s request?”

“Quite so, M. le juge. I received a telegram bidding me to proceed
without delay to Buenos Ayres, and from thence via the Andes to Valparaiso and
on to Santiago.”

“Ah. And the object of this journey?”

“I have no idea, M. le juge.”

“What?”

“No. See, here is the telegram.”

The magistrate took it and read it aloud.

“ ‘Proceed immediately Cherbourg embarkAnzorasailing
tonight Buenos Ayres. Ultimate destination Santiago. Further instructions will
await you Buenos Ayres. Do not fail. Matter is of utmost importance.
Renauld.’ And there had been no previous correspondence on the
matter?”

Jack Renauld shook his head.

“That is the only intimation of any kind. I knew, of course, that my
father, having lived so long out there, had necessarily many interests in South
America. But he had never mooted any suggestion of sending me out.”

“You have, of course, been a good deal in South America, M.
Renauld?”