“Why did you measure that overcoat?” I asked, with some curiosity,
as we walked down the hot white road at a leisurely pace.

“Parbleu!to see how long it was,” replied my friend
imperturbably.

I was vexed. Poirot’s incurable habit of making a mystery out of nothing
never failed to irritate me. I relapsed into silence, and followed a train of
thought of my own. Although I had not noticed them specially at the time,
certain words Mrs. Renauld had addressed to her son now recurred to me, fraught
with a new significance. “So you did not sail?” she had said, and
then had added: “After all, it does not matter—now.”

What had she meant by that? The words were enigmatical—significant. Was
it possible that she knew more than we supposed? She had denied all knowledge
of the mysterious mission with which her husband was to have entrusted his son.
But was she really less ignorant than she pretended? Could she enlighten us if
she chose, and was her silence part of a carefully thought out and preconceived
plan?

The more I thought about it, the more I was convinced that I was right. Mrs.
Renauld knew more than she chose to tell. In her surprise at seeing her son,
she had momentarily betrayed herself. I felt convinced that she knew, if not
the assassins, at least the motive for the assassination. But some very
powerful considerations must keep her silent.

“You think profoundly, my friend,” remarked Poirot, breaking in
upon my reflections. “What is it that intrigues you so?”

I told him, sure of my ground, though feeling expectant that he would ridicule
my suspicions. But to my surprise he nodded thoughtfully.

“You are quite right, Hastings. From the beginning I have been sure that
she was keeping something back. At first I suspected her, if not of inspiring,
at least of conniving at the crime.”

“You suspectedher?” I cried.

“But certainly! She benefits enormously—in fact, by this new will,
she is the only person to benefit. So, from the start, she was singled out for
attention. You may have noticed that I took an early opportunity of examining
her wrists. I wished to see whether there was any possibility that she had
gagged and bound herself.Eh bien, I saw at once that there was no fake,
the cords had actually been drawn so tight as to cut into the flesh. That ruled
out the possibility of her having committed the crime single-handed. But it was
still possible for her to have connived at it, or to have been the instigator
with an accomplice. Moreover, the story, as she told it, was singularly
familiar to me—the masked men that she could not recognize, the mention
of ‘the secret’—I had heard, or read, all these things
before. Another little detail confirmed my belief that she was not speaking the
truth.The wrist watch, Hastings, the wrist watch!”

Again that wrist watch! Poirot was eyeing me curiously.

“You see,mon ami?You comprehend?”

“No,” I replied with some ill humour. “I neither see nor
comprehend. You make all these confounded mysteries, and it’s useless
asking you to explain. You always like keeping everything up your sleeve to the
last minute.”

“Do not enrage yourself, my friend,” said Poirot with a smile.
“I will explain if you wish. But not a word to Giraud,c’est
entendu?He treats me as an old one of no importance!We shall
see!In common fairness I gave him a hint. If he does not choose to act
upon it, that is his own look out.”

I assured Poirot that he could rely upon my discretion.

“C’est bien!Let us then employ our little grey cells. Tell
me, my friend, at what time, according to you, did the tragedy take
place?”

“Why, at two o’clock or thereabouts,” I said, astonished.
“You remember, Mrs. Renauld told us that she heard the clock strike while
the men were in the room.”

“Exactly, and on the strength of that, you, the examining magistrate,
Bex, and every one else, accept the time without further question. But I,
Hercule Poirot, say that Madame Renauld lied.The crime took place at least
two hours earlier.”

“But the doctors—”

“They declared, after examination of the body, that death had taken place
between ten and seven hours previously.Mon ami, for some reason, it was
imperative that the crime should seem to have taken place later than it
actually did. You have read of a smashed watch or clock recording the exact
hour of a crime? So that the time should not rest on Mrs. Renauld’s
testimony alone, some one moved on the hands of that wrist watch to two
o’clock, and then dashed it violently to the ground. But, as is often the
case, they defeated their own object. The glass was smashed, but the mechanism
of the watch was uninjured. It was a most disastrous manoeuvre on their part,
for it at once drew my attention to two points—first, that Madame Renauld
was lying: secondly, that there must be some vital reason for the postponement
of the time.”