We lunched with an excellent appetite. I understood well enough that Poirot did
not wish to discuss the tragedy where we could so easily be overheard. But, as
is usual when one topic fills the mind to the exclusion of everything else, no
other subject of interest seemed to present itself. For a while we ate in
silence, and then Poirot observed maliciously:

“Eh bien!And your indiscretions! You recount them not?”

I felt myself blushing.

“Oh, you mean this morning?” I endeavoured to adopt a tone of
absolute nonchalance.

But I was no match for Poirot. In a very few minutes he had extracted the whole
story from me, his eyes twinkling as he did so.

“Tiens!A story of the most romantic. What is her name, this
charming young lady?”

I had to confess that I did not know.

“Still more romantic! The firstrencontrein the train from Paris,
the second here. Journeys end in lovers’ meetings, is not that the
saying?”

“Don’t be an ass, Poirot.”

“Yesterday it was Mademoiselle Daubreuil, today it is
Mademoiselle—Cinderella! Decidedly you have the heart of a Turk,
Hastings! You should establish a harem!”

“It’s all very well to rag me. Mademoiselle Daubreuil is a very
beautiful girl, and I do admire her immensely—I don’t mind
admitting it. The other’s nothing—don’t suppose I shall ever
see her again. She was quite amusing to talk to just for a railway journey, but
she’s not the kind of girl I should ever get keen on.”

“Why?”

“Well—it sounds snobbish perhaps—but she’s not a lady,
not in any sense of the word.”

Poirot nodded thoughtfully. There was less raillery in his voice as he asked:

“You believe, then, in birth and breeding?”

“I may be old-fashioned, but I certainly don’t believe in marrying
out of one’s class. It never answers.”

“I agree with you,mon ami. Ninety-nine times out of a hundred, it
is as you say. But there is always the hundredth time! Still, that does not
arise, as you do not propose to see the lady again.”

His last words were almost a question, and I was aware of the sharpness with
which he darted a glance at me. And before my eyes, writ large in letters of
fire, I saw the words “Hôtel du Phare,” and I heard again her voice
saying “Come and look me up” and my own answering withempressement: “I will.”

Well, what of it? I had meant to go at the time. But since then, I had had time
to reflect. I did not like the girl. Thinking it over in cold blood, I came
definitely to the conclusion that I disliked her intensely. I had got hauled
over the coals for foolishly gratifying her morbid curiosity, and I had not the
least wish to see her again.

I answered Poirot lightly enough.