Waiting for no more, I turned and ran up the path to the shed. The two men on
guard there stood aside to let me pass and, filled with excitement, I entered.

The light was dim, the place was a mere rough wooden erection to keep old pots
and tools in. I had entered impetuously, but on the threshold I checked myself,
fascinated by the spectacle before me.

Giraud was on his hands and knees, a pocket torch in his hand with which he was
examining every inch of the ground. He looked up with a frown at my entrance,
then his face relaxed a little in a sort of good-humoured contempt.

“Ah,c’est l’Anglais!Enter then. Let us see what you
can make of this affair.”

Rather stung by his tone, I stooped my head, and passed in.

“There he is,” said Giraud, flashing his torch to the far corner.

I stepped across.

The dead man lay straight upon his back. He was of medium height, swarthy of
complexion, and possibly about fifty years of age. He was neatly dressed in a
dark blue suit, well cut and probably made by an expensive tailor, but not new.
His face was terribly convulsed, and on his left side, just over the heart, the
hilt of a dagger stood up, black and shining. I recognized it. It was the same
dagger I had seen reposing in the glass jar the preceding morning!

“I’m expecting the doctor any minute,” explained Giraud.
“Although we hardly need him. There’s no doubt what the man died
of. He was stabbed to the heart, and death must have been pretty well
instantaneous.”

“When was it done? Last night?”

Giraud shook his head.

“Hardly. I don’t lay down the law on medical evidence, but the
man’s been dead well over twelve hours. When do you say you last saw that
dagger?”

“About ten o’clock yesterday morning.”

“Then I should be inclined to fix the crime as being done not long after
that.”

“But people were passing and repassing this shed continually.”

Giraud laughed disagreeably.

“You progress to a marvel! Who told you he was killed in this
shed?”

“Well—” I felt flustered. “I—I assumed it.”

“Oh, what a fine detective! Look at him,mon petit—does a
man stabbed to the heart fall like that—neatly with his feet together,
and his arms to his side? No. Again does a man lie down on his back and permit
himself to be stabbed without raising a hand to defend himself? It is absurd,
is it not? But see here—and here—” He flashed the torch along
the ground. I saw curious irregular marks in the soft dirt. “He was
dragged here after he was dead. Half dragged, half carried by two people. Their
tracks do not show on the hard ground outside, and here they have been careful
to obliterate them—but one of the two was a woman, my young
friend.”

“A woman?”