The doctor’s words were so surprising that we were all momentarily taken
aback. Here was a man stabbed with a dagger which we knew to have been stolen
only twenty-four hours previously, and yet Dr. Durand asserted positively that
he had been dead at least forty-eight hours! The whole thing was fantastic to
the last extreme.

We were still recovering from the surprise of the doctor’s announcement,
when a telegram was brought to me. It had been sent up from the hotel to the
Villa. I tore it open. It was from Poirot, and announced his return by the
train arriving at Merlinville at 12:28.

I looked at my watch and saw that I had just time to get comfortably to the
station and meet him there. I felt that it was of the utmost importance that he
should know at once of the new and startling developments in the case.

Evidently, I reflected, Poirot had had no difficulty in finding what he wanted
in Paris. The quickness of his return proved that. Very few hours had sufficed.
I wondered how he would take the exciting news I had to impart.

The train was some minutes late, and I strolled aimlessly up and down the
platform, until it occurred to me that I might pass the time by asking a few
questions as to who had left Merlinville by the last train on the evening of
the tragedy.

I approached the chief porter, an intelligent looking man, and had little
difficulty in persuading him to enter upon the subject. It was a disgrace to
the Police, he hotly affirmed, that such brigands of assassins should be
allowed to go about unpunished. I hinted that there was some possibility they
might have left by the midnight train, but he negatived the idea decidedly. He
would have noticed two foreigners—he was sure of it. Only about twenty
people had left by the train, and he could not have failed to observe them.

I do not know what put the idea into my head—possibly it was the deep
anxiety underlying Marthe Daubreuil’s tones—but I asked suddenly:

“Young M. Renauld—he did not leave by that train, did he?”

“Ah, no, monsieur. To arrive and start off again within half an hour, it
would not be amusing, that!”

I stared at the man, the significance of his words almost escaping me. Then I
saw. …

“You mean,” I said, my heart beating a little, “that M. Jack
Renauld arrived at Merlinville that evening?”

“But yes, monsieur. By the last train arriving the other way, the
11:40.”

My brain whirled. That, then, was the reason of Marthe’s poignant
anxiety. Jack Renauld had been in Merlinville on the night of the crime! But
why had he not said so? Why, on the contrary, had he led us to believe that he
had remained in Cherbourg? Remembering his frank boyish countenance, I could
hardly bring myself to believe that he had any connection with the crime. Yet
why this silence on his part about so vital a matter? One thing was certain,
Marthe had known all along. Hence her anxiety, and her eager questioning of
Poirot to know whether any one were suspected.

My cogitations were interrupted by the arrival of the train, and in another
moment I was greeting Poirot. The little man was radiant. He beamed and
vociferated and, forgetting my English reluctance, embraced me warmly on the
platform.

“Mon cher ami, I have succeeded—but succeeded to a
marvel!”

“Indeed? I’m delighted to hear it. Have you heard the latest
here?”

“How would you that I should hear anything? There have been some
developments, eh? The brave Giraud, he has made an arrest? Or even arrests
perhaps? Ah, but I will make him look foolish, that one! But where are you
taking me, my friend? Do we not go to the hotel? It is necessary that I attend
to my moustaches—they are deplorably limp from the heat of travelling.
Also, without doubt, there is dust on my coat. And my tie, that I must
rearrange.”

I cut short his remonstrances.

“My dear Poirot—never mind all that. We must go to the Villa at
once.There has been another murder!”

I have frequently been disappointed when fancying that I was giving news of
importance to my friend. Either he has known it already or he has dismissed it
as irrelevant to the main issue—and in the latter case events have
usually proved him justified. But this time I could not complain of missing my
effect. Never have I seen a man so flabbergasted. His jaw dropped. All the
jauntiness went out of his bearing. He stared at me open-mouthed.