Some twenty years or so before the opening of the present story, Monsieur
Arnold Beroldy, a native of Lyons, arrived in Paris accompanied by his pretty
wife and their little daughter, a mere babe. Monsieur Beroldy was a junior
partner in a firm of wine merchants, a stout middle-aged man, fond of the good
things of life, devoted to his charming wife, and altogether unremarkable in
every way. The firm in which Monsieur Beroldy was a partner was a small one,
and although doing well, it did not yield a large income to the junior partner.
The Beroldys had a small apartment and lived in a very modest fashion to begin
with.

But unremarkable though Monsieur Beroldy might be, his wife was plentifully
gilded with the brush of Romance. Young and good looking, and gifted withal
with a singular charm of manner, Madame Beroldy at once created a stir in the
quarter, especially when it began to be whispered that some interesting mystery
surrounded her birth. It was rumoured that she was the illegitimate daughter of
a Russian Grand Duke. Others asserted that it was an Austrian Archduke, and
that the union was legal, though morganatic. But all stories agreed upon one
point, that Jeanne Beroldy was the centre of an interesting mystery. Questioned
by the curious, Madame Beroldy did not deny these rumours. On the other hand
she let it be clearly understood that, though her “lips” were
“sealed,” all these stories had a foundation in fact. To intimate
friends she unburdened herself further, spoke of political intrigues, of
“papers,” of obscure dangers that threatened her. There was also
much talk of Crown jewels that were to be sold secretly, with herself acting as
the go-between.

Amongst the friends and acquaintances of the Beroldys was a young lawyer,
Georges Conneau. It was soon evident that the fascinating Jeanne had completely
enslaved his heart. Madame Beroldy encouraged the young man in a discreet
fashion, but being always careful to affirm her complete devotion to her
middle-aged husband. Nevertheless, many spiteful persons did not hesitate to
declare that young Conneau was her lover—and not the only one!

When the Beroldys had been in Paris about three months, another personage came
upon the scene. This was Mr. Hiram P. Trapp, a native of the United States, and
extremely wealthy. Introduced to the charming and mysterious Madame Beroldy, he
fell a prompt victim to her fascinations. His admiration was obvious, though
strictly respectful.

About this time, Madame Beroldy became more outspoken in her confidences. To
several friends, she declared herself greatly worried on her husband’s
behalf. She explained that he had been drawn into several schemes of a
political nature, and also referred to some important papers that had been
entrusted to him for safekeeping and which concerned a “secret” of
far reaching European importance. They had been entrusted to his custody to
throw pursuers off the track, but Madame Beroldy was nervous, having recognized
several important members of the Revolutionary Circle in Paris.

On the 28th day of November, the blow fell. The woman who came daily to clean
and cook for the Beroldys was surprised to find the door of the apartment
standing wide open. Hearing faint moans issuing from the bedroom, she went in.
A terrible sight met her eyes. Madame Beroldy lay on the floor, bound hand and
foot, uttering feeble moans, having managed to free her mouth from a gag. On
the bed was Monsieur Beroldy, lying in a pool of blood, with a knife driven
through his heart.

Madame Beroldy’s story was clear enough. Suddenly awakened from sleep,
she had discerned two masked men bending over her. Stifling her cries, they had
bound and gagged her. They had then demanded of Monsieur Beroldy the famous
“secret.”

But the intrepid wine merchant refused point-blank to accede to their request.
Angered by his refusal, one of the men incontinently stabbed him through the
heart. With the dead man’s keys, they had opened the safe in the corner,
and had carried away with them a mass of papers. Both men were heavily bearded,
and had worn masks, but Madame Beroldy declared positively that they were
Russians.

The affair created an immense sensation. It was referred to variously as
“the Nihilist Atrocity,” “Revolutionaries in Paris,”
and the “Russian Mystery.” Time went on, and the mysterious bearded
men were never traced. And then, just as public interest was beginning to die
down, a startling development occurred. Madame Beroldy was arrested and charged
with the murder of her husband.

The trial, when it came on, aroused widespread interest. The youth and beauty
of the accused, and her mysterious history, were sufficient to make of it acause célèbre. People ranged themselves wildly for or against the
prisoner. But her partisans received several severe checks to their enthusiasm.
The romantic past of Madame Beroldy, her royal blood, and the mysterious
intrigues in which she had her being were shown to be mere fantasies of the
imagination.

It was proved beyond doubt that Jeanne Beroldy’s parents were a highly
respectable and prosaic couple, fruit merchants, who lived on the outskirts of
Lyons. The Russian Grand Duke, the court intrigues, and the political
schemes—all the stories current were traced back to—the lady
herself! From her brain had emanated these ingenious myths, and she was proved
to have raised a considerable sum of money from various credulous persons by
her fiction of the “Crown jewels”—the jewels in question
being found to be mere paste imitations. Remorselessly the whole story of her
life was laid bare. The motive for the murder was found in Mr. Hiram P. Trapp.
Mr. Trapp did his best, but relentlessly and agilely cross-questioned he was
forced to admit that he loved the lady, and that, had she been free, he would
have asked her to be his wife. The fact that the relations between them were
admittedly platonic strengthened the case against the accused. Debarred from
becoming his mistress by the simple honourable nature of the man, Jeanne
Beroldy had conceived the monstrous project of ridding herself of her elderly
undistinguished husband, and becoming the wife of the rich American.

Throughout, Madame Beroldy confronted her accusers with complete sang froid and
self possession. Her story never varied. She continued to declare strenuously
that she was of royal birth, and that she had been substituted for the daughter
of the fruit seller at an early age. Absurd and completely unsubstantiated as
these statements were, a great number of people believed implicitly in their
truth.

But the prosecution was implacable. It denounced the masked
“Russians” as a myth, and asserted that the crime had been
committed by Madame Beroldy and her lover, Georges Conneau. A warrant was
issued for the arrest of the latter, but he had wisely disappeared. Evidence
showed that the bonds which secured Madame Beroldy were so loose that she could
easily have freed herself.

And then, towards the close of the trial, a letter, posted in Paris, was sent
to the Public Prosecutor. It was from Georges Conneau and, without revealing
his whereabouts, it contained a full confession of the crime. He declared that
he had indeed struck the fatal blow at Madame Beroldy’s instigation. The
crime had been planned between them. Believing that her husband ill-treated
her, and maddened by his own passion for her, a passion which he believed her
to return, he had planned the crime and struck the fatal blow that should free
the woman he loved from a hateful bondage. Now, for the first time, he learnt
of Mr. Hiram P. Trapp, and realized that the woman he loved had betrayed him!
Not for his sake did she wish to be free—but in order to marry the
wealthy American. She had used him as a cat’s-paw, and now, in his
jealous rage, he turned and denounced her, declaring that throughout he had
acted at her instigation.

And then Madame Beroldy proved herself the remarkable woman she undoubtedly
was. Without hesitation, she dropped her previous defence, and admitted that
the “Russians” were a pure invention on her part. The real murderer
was Georges Conneau. Maddened by passion, he had committed the crime, vowing
that if she did not keep silence he would enact a terrible vengeance from her.
Terrified by his threats, she had consented—also fearing it likely that
if she told the truth she might be accused of conniving at the crime. But she
had steadfastly refused to have anything more to do with her husband’s
murderer, and it was in revenge for this attitude on her part that he had
written this letter accusing her. She swore solemnly that she had had nothing
to do with the planning of the crime, that she had awoke on that memorable
night to find Georges Conneau standing over her, the blood-stained knife in his
hand.

It was a touch and go affair. Madame Beroldy’s story was hardly credible.
But this woman, whose fairy tales of royal intrigues had been so easily
accepted, had the supreme art of making herself believed. Her address to the
jury was a masterpiece. The tears streaming down her face, she spoke of her
child, of her woman’s honour—of her desire to keep her reputation
untarnished for the child’s sake. She admitted that, Georges Conneau
having been her lover, she might perhaps be held morally responsible for the
crime—but, before God, nothing more! She knew that she had committed a
grave fault in not denouncing Conneau to the law, but she declared in a broken
voice that that was a thing no woman could have done. … She had loved him!
Could she let her hand be the one to send him to the Guillotine? She had been
guilty of much, but she was innocent of the terrible crime imputed to her.

However that may have been, her eloquence and personality won the day. Madame
Beroldy, amidst a scene of unparalleled excitement, was acquitted. Despite the
utmost endeavours of the police, Georges Conneau was never traced. As for
Madame Beroldy, nothing more was heard of her. Taking the child with her, she
left Paris to begin a new life.



I have set down the Beroldy case in full. Of course all the details did not
present themselves to my memory as I have recounted them here. Nevertheless, I
recalled the case fairly accurately. It had attracted a great deal of interest
at the time, and had been fully reported by the English papers, so that it did
not need much effort of memory on my part to recollect the salient details.

Just for the moment, in my excitement, it seemed to clear up the whole matter.
I admit that I am impulsive, and Poirot deplores my custom of jumping to
conclusions, but I think I had some excuse in this instance. The remarkable way
in which this discovery justified Poirot’s point of view struck me at
once.