I have set down the Beroldy case in full. Of course all the details did not
present themselves to my memory as I have recounted them here. Nevertheless, I
recalled the case fairly accurately. It had attracted a great deal of interest
at the time, and had been fully reported by the English papers, so that it did
not need much effort of memory on my part to recollect the salient details.

Just for the moment, in my excitement, it seemed to clear up the whole matter.
I admit that I am impulsive, and Poirot deplores my custom of jumping to
conclusions, but I think I had some excuse in this instance. The remarkable way
in which this discovery justified Poirot’s point of view struck me at
once.

“Poirot,” I said, “I congratulate you. I see everything
now.”

“If that is indeed the truth,Icongratulateyou,mon ami. For as a rule you are not famous for seeing—eh, is it not
so?”

I felt a little annoyed.

“Come now, don’t rub it in. You’ve been so confoundedly
mysterious all along with your hints and your insignificant details that any
one might fail to see what you were driving at.”

Poirot lit one of his little cigarettes with his usual precision. Then he
looked up.

“And since you see everything now,mon ami, what exactly is it
that you see?”

“Why, that it was Madame Daubreuil—Beroldy, who murdered Mr.
Renauld. The similarity of the two cases proves that beyond a doubt.”

“Then you consider that Madame Beroldy was wrongly acquitted? That in
actual fact she was guilty of connivance in her husband’s murder?”

I opened my eyes wide.

“But of course! Don’t you?”

Poirot walked to the end of the room, absentmindedly straightened a chair, and
then said thoughtfully.

“Yes, that is my opinion. But there is no ‘of course’ about
it, my friend. Technically speaking, Madame Beroldy is innocent.”

“Of that crime, perhaps. But not of this.”

Poirot sat down again, and regarded me, his thoughtful air more marked than
ever.

“So it is definitely your opinion, Hastings, that Madame Daubreuil
murdered M. Renauld?”

“Yes.”

“Why?”

He shot the question at me with such suddenness that I was taken aback.