“By the way, Poirot,” I said, as we walked along the hot white
road, “I’ve got a bone to pick with you. I dare say you meant well,
but really it was no business of yours to go mouching round to the Hôtel du
Phare without letting me know.”

Poirot shot a quick sidelong glance at me.

“And how did you know I had been there?” he inquired.

Much to my annoyance I felt the colour rising in my cheeks.

“I happened to look in in passing,” I explained with as much
dignity as I could muster.

I rather feared Poirot’s banter, but to my relief, and somewhat to my
surprise, he only shook his head with a rather unusual gravity.

“If I have offended your susceptibilities in any way, I demand pardon of
you. You will understand better soon. But, believe me, I have striven to
concentrate all my energies on the case.”

“Oh, it’s all right,” I said, mollified by the apology.
“I know it’s only that you have my interests at heart. But I can
take care of myself all right.”

Poirot seemed to be about to say something further, but checked himself.

Arrived at the Villa, Poirot led the way up to the shed where the second body
had been discovered. He did not, however, go in, but paused by the bench which
I have mentioned before as being set some few yards away from it. After
contemplating it for a moment or two, he paced carefully from it to the hedge
which marked the boundary between the Villa Geneviève and the Villa Marguerite.
Then he paced back again, nodding his head as he did so. Returning again to the
hedge, he parted the bushes with his hands.

“With good fortune,” he remarked to me over his shoulder,
“Mademoiselle Marthe may find herself in the garden. I desire to speak to
her and would prefer not to call formally at the Villa Marguerite. Ah, all is
well, there she is. Pst, mademoiselle! Pst!Un moment, s’il vous
plaît.”

I joined him at the moment that Marthe Daubreuil, looking slightly startled,
came running up to the hedge at his call.

“A little word with you, mademoiselle, if it is permitted?”

“Certainly, Monsieur Poirot.”

Despite her acquiescence, her eyes looked troubled and afraid.

“Mademoiselle, do you remember running after me on the road the day that
I came to your house with the examining magistrate? You asked me if any one
were suspected of the crime.”

“And you told me two Chilians.” Her voice sounded rather
breathless, and her left hand stole to her breast.

“Will you ask me the same question again, mademoiselle?”

“What do you mean?”

“This. If you were to ask me that question again, I should give you a
different answer. Some one is suspected—but not a Chilian.”