I was dumbfounded. Up to the last, I had not been able bring myself to believe
Jack Renauld guilty. I had expected a ringing proclamation of his innocence
when Poirot challenged him. But now, watching him as he stood, white and limp
against the wall, and hearing the damning admission fall from his lips, I
doubted no longer.

But Poirot had turned to Giraud.

“What are your grounds for arresting him?”

“Do you expect me to give them to you?”

“As a matter of courtesy, yes.”

Giraud looked at him doubtfully. He was torn between a desire to refuse rudely
and the pleasure of triumphing over his adversary.

“You think I have made a mistake, I suppose?” he sneered.

“It would not surprise me,” replied Poirot, with a soupçon of
malice.

Giraud’s face took on a deeper tinge of red.

“Eh bien, come in here. You shall judge for yourself.” He
flung open the door of thesalon, and we passed in, leaving Jack Renauld
in the care of the two other men.

“Now, M. Poirot,” said Giraud laying his hat on the table, and
speaking with the utmost sarcasm, “I will treat you to a little lecture
on detective work. I will show you how we moderns work.”

“Bien!” said Poirot, composing himself to listen. “I
will show you how admirably the Old Guard can listen,” and he leaned back
and closed his eyes, opening them for a moment to remark. “Do not fear
that I shall sleep. I will attend most carefully.”

“Of course,” began Giraud, “I soon saw through all that
Chilian tomfoolery. Two men were in it—but they were not mysterious
foreigners! All that was a blind.”

“Very creditable so far, my dear Giraud,” murmured Poirot.
“Especially after that clever trick of theirs with the match and
cigarette end.”

Giraud glared, but continued:

“A man must have been connected with the case, in order to dig the grave.
There is no man who actually benefits by the crime, but there was a man who
thought he would benefit. I heard of Jack Renauld’s quarrel with his
father, and of the threats that he had used. The motive was established. Now as
to means. Jack Renauld was in Merlinville that night. He concealed the
fact—which turned suspicion into certainty. Then we found a second
victim—stabbed with the same dagger. We know when that dagger
was stolen. Captain Hastings here can fix the time. Jack Renauld, arriving from
Cherbourg, was the only person who could have taken it. I have accounted for
all the other members of the household.”

Poirot interrupted:

“You are wrong. There is one other person who could have taken the
dagger.”

“You refer to M. Stonor? He arrived at the front door, in an automobile
which had brought him straight from Calais. Ah, believe me, I have looked into
everything. M. Jack Renauld arrived by train. An hour elapsed between his
arrival, and the moment he presented himself at the house. Without doubt, he
saw Captain Hastings and his companion leave the shed, slipped in himself and
took the dagger, stabbed his accomplice in the shed—”

“Who was already dead!”