The next moment Poirot embraced me warmly. “Enfin!You have
arrived. And all by yourself. It is superb! Continue your reasoning. You are
right. Decidedly we have done wrong to forget Georges Conneau.”

I was so flattered by the little man’s approval that I could hardly
continue. But at last I collected my thoughts and went on.

“Georges Conneau disappeared twenty years ago, but we have no reason to
believe that he is dead.”

“Aucunement,” agreed Poirot. “Proceed.”

“Therefore we will assume that he is alive.”

“Exactly.”

“Or that he was alive until recently.”

“De mieux en mieux!”

“We will presume,” I continued, my enthusiasm rising, “that
he has fallen on evil days. He has become a criminal, an apache, a
tramp—a what you will. He chances to come to Merlinville. There he finds
the woman he has never ceased to love.”

“Eh eh! The sentimentality,” warned Poirot.

“Where one hates one also loves,” I quoted or misquoted. “At
any rate he finds her there, living under an assumed name. But she has a new
lover, the Englishman, Renauld. Georges Conneau, the memory of old wrongs
rising in him, quarrels with this Renauld. He lies in wait for him as he comes
to visit his mistress, and stabs him in the back. Then, terrified at what he
has done, he starts to dig a grave. I imagine it likely that Madame Daubreuil
comes out to look for her lover. She and Conneau have a terrible scene. He
drags her into the shed, and there suddenly falls down in an epileptic fit. Now
supposing Jack Renauld to appear. Madame Daubreuil tells him all, points out to
him the dreadful consequences to her daughter if this scandal of the past is
revived. His father’s murderer is dead—let them do their best to
hush it up. Jack Renauld consents—goes to the house and has an interview
with his mother, winning her over to his point of view. Primed with the story
that Madame Daubreuil has suggested to him, she permits herself to be gagged
and bound. There, Poirot, what do you think of that?” I leaned back,
flushed with the pride of successful reconstruction.

Poirot looked at me thoughtfully.

“I think that you should write for the Kinema,mon ami,” he
remarked at last.

“You mean—?”

“It would make a good film, the story that you have recounted to me
there—but it bears no sort of resemblance to everyday life.”

“I admit that I haven’t gone into all the details,
but—”

“You have gone further—you have ignored them magnificently. What
about the way the two men were dressed? Do you suggest that after stabbing his
victim, Conneau removed his suit of clothes, donned it himself, and replaced
the dagger?”

“I don’t see that that matters,” I objected rather huffily.
“He may have obtained clothes and money from Madame Daubreuil by threats
earlier in the day.”

“By threats—eh? You seriously advance that supposition?”

“Certainly. He could have threatened to reveal her identity to the
Renaulds, which would probably have put an end to all hopes of her
daughter’s marriage.”