In a measured voice, Poirot began his exposition.

“It seems strange to you,mon ami, that a man should plan his own
death? So strange, that you prefer to reject the truth as fantastic, and to
revert to a story that is in reality ten times more impossible. Yes, M. Renauld
planned his own death, but there is one detail that perhaps escapes
you—he did not intend to die.”

I shook my head, bewildered.

“But no, it is all most simple really,” said Poirot kindly.
“For the crime that M. Renauld proposed a murderer was not necessary, as
I told you, but a body was. Let us reconstruct, seeing events this time from a
different angle.

“Georges Conneau flies from justice—to Canada. There, under an
assumed name he marries, and finally acquires a vast fortune in South America.
But there is a nostalgia upon him for his own country. Twenty years have
elapsed, he is considerably changed in appearance, besides being a man of such
eminence that no one is likely to connect him with a fugitive from justice many
years ago. He deems it quite safe to return. He takes up his headquarters in
England, but intends to spend the summers in France. And ill fortune, that
obscure justice which shapes men’s ends, and will not allow them to evade
the consequences of their acts, takes him to Merlinville. There, in the whole
of France, is the one person who is capable of recognizing him. It is, of
course, a gold mine to Madame Daubreuil, and a gold mine of which she is not
slow to take advantage. He is helpless, absolutely in her power. And she bleeds
him heavily.

“And then the inevitable happens. Jack Renauld falls in love with the
beautiful girl he sees almost daily, and wishes to marry her. That rouses his
father. At all costs, he will prevent his son marrying the daughter of this
evil woman. Jack Renauld knows nothing of his father’s past, but Madame
Renauld knows everything. She is a woman of great force of character, and
passionately devoted to her husband. They take counsel together. Renauld sees
only one way of escape—death. He must appear to die, in reality escaping
to another country where he will start again under an assumed name, and where
Madame Renauld, having played the widow’s part for a while, can join him.
It is essential that she should have control of the money, so he alters his
will. How they meant to manage the body business originally, I do not
know—possibly an art student’s skeleton—and a fire or
something of the kind, but long before their plans have matured an event occurs
which plays into their hands. A rough tramp, violent and abusive, finds his way
into the garden. There is a struggle, M. Renauld seeks to eject him, and
suddenly the tramp, an epileptic, falls down in a fit. He is dead. M. Renauld
calls his wife. Together they drag him into the shed—as we know, the
event had occurred just outside—and they realize the marvellous
opportunity that has been vouchsafed them. The man bears no resemblance to M.
Renauld, but he is middle-aged, of a usual French type. That is sufficient.

“I rather fancy that they sat on the bench up there, out of earshot from
the house, discussing matters. Their plan was quickly made. The identification
must rest solely on Madame Renauld’s evidence. Jack Renauld and the
chauffeur (who had been with his master two years) must be got out of the way.
It was unlikely that the French women servants would go near the body, and in
any case Renauld intended to take measures to deceive any one not likely to
appreciate details. Masters was sent off, a telegram despatched to Jack, Buenos
Ayres being selected to give credence to the story that Renauld had decided
upon. Having heard of me, as a rather obscure elderly detective, he wrote his
appeal for help knowing that, when I arrived, the production of the letter
would have a profound effect upon the examining magistrate—which, of
course, it did.

“They dressed the body of the tramp in a suit of M. Renauld’s and
left his ragged coat and trousers by the door of the shed, not daring to take
them into the house. And then, to give credence to the tale Madame Renauld was
to tell, they drove the aeroplane dagger through his heart. That night, M.
Renauld will first bind and gag his wife, and then, taking a spade, will dig a
grave in that particular spot of ground where he knows a—how do you call
it? bunkair?—is to be made. It is essential that the body should be
found—Madame Daubreuil must have no suspicions. On the other hand, if a
little time elapses, any dangers as to identity will be greatly lessened. Then,
M. Renauld will don the tramp’s rags, and shuffle off to the station,
where he will leave, unnoticed, by the 12:10 train. Since the crime will be
supposed to have taken place two hours later, no suspicion can possibly attach
to him.

“You see now his annoyance at the inopportune visit of the girl Bella.
Every moment of delay is fatal to his plans. He gets rid of her as soon as he
can, however. Then, to work! He leaves the front door slightly ajar to create
the impression that the assassins left that way. He binds and gags Madame
Renauld, correcting his mistake of twenty-two years ago, when the looseness of
the bonds caused suspicion to fall upon his accomplice, but leaving her primed
with essentially the same story as he had invented before, proving the
unconscious recoil of the mind against originality. The night is chilly, and he
slips on an overcoat over his underclothing, intending to cast it into the
grave with the dead man. He goes out by the window, smoothing over the flower
bed carefully, and thereby furnishing the most positive evidence against
himself. He goes out on to the lonely golf links, and he digs—and
then—”

“Yes?”

“And then,” said Poirot gravely, “the justice that he has so
long eluded overtakes him. An unknown hand stabs him in the back. … Now,
Hastings, you understand what I mean when I talk oftwocrimes. The
first crime, the crime that M. Renauld, in his arrogance, asked us to
investigate (ah, but he made a famous mistake there! He misjudged Hercule
Poirot!) is solved. But behind it lies a deeper riddle. And to solve that will
be difficult—since the criminal in his wisdom, has been content to avail
himself of the devices prepared by M. Renauld. It has been a particularly
perplexing and baffling mystery to solve. A young hand, like Giraud, who does
not place any reliance on the psychology, is almost certain to fail.”

“You’re marvellous, Poirot,” I said, with admiration.
“Absolutely marvellous. No one on earth but you could have done
it!”

I think my praise pleased him. For once in his life, he looked almost
embarrassed.

“Ah, then you no longer despise poor old Papa Poirot? You shift your
allegiance back from the human foxhound?”

His term for Giraud never failed to make me smile.

“Rather. You’ve scored over him handsomely.”

“That poor Giraud,” said Poirot, trying unsuccessfully to look
modest. “Without doubt it is not all stupidity. He has hadla mauvaise
chanceonce or twice. That dark hair coiled round the dagger, for instance.
To say the least, it was misleading.”

“To tell you the truth, Poirot,” I said slowly, “even now I
don’t quite see—whose hair was it?”

“Madame Renauld’s of course. That is wherela mauvaise
chancecame in. Her hair, dark originally, is almost completely silvered.
It might just as easily have been a grey hair—and then, by no conceivable
effort could Giraud have persuaded himself it came from the head of Jack
Renauld! But it is all of a piece. Always the facts must be twisted to fit the
theory! Did not Giraud find the traces of two persons, a man and a woman, in
the shed? And how does that fit in with his reconstruction of the case? I will
tell you—it does not fit in, and so we shall hear no more of them! I ask
you, is that a methodical way of working? The great Giraud! The great Giraud is
nothing but a toy balloon—swollen with its own importance. But I, Hercule
Poirot, whom he despises, will be the little pin that pricks the big
balloon—comme ça!” And he made an expressive gesture. Then,
calming down, he resumed:

“Without doubt, when Madame Renauld recovers, she will speak. The
possibility of her son being accused of the murder never occurred to her. How
should it, when she believed him safely at sea on board theAnzora?Ah! voilà une femme, Hastings! What force, what self-command! She only
made one slip. On his unexpected return: ‘It does not
matter—now.’ And no one noticed—no one realized the
significance of those words. What a terrible part she has had to play, poor
woman. Imagine the shock when she goes to identify the body and, instead of
what she expects, sees the actual lifeless form of the husband she has believed
miles away by now. No wonder she fainted! But since then, despite her grief and
her despair, how resolutely she has played her part, and how the anguish of it
must wring her. She cannot say a word to set us on the track of the real
murderers. For her son’s sake, no one must know that Paul Renauld was
Georges Conneau, the criminal. Final and most bitter blow, she has admitted
publicly that Madame Daubreuil was her husband’s mistress—for a
hint of blackmail might be fatal to her secret. How cleverly she dealt with the
examining magistrate when he asked her if there was any mystery in her
husband’s past life. ‘Nothing so romantic, I am sure, M. le
juge.’ It was perfect, the indulgent tone, thesoupçonof sad
mockery. At once M. Hautet felt himself foolish and melodramatic. Yes, she is a
great woman! If she loved a criminal, she loved him royally!”