For a moment or two I sat as though frozen, the photograph still in my hand.
Then, summoning all my courage to appear unmoved, I handed it back. At the same
time, I stole a quick glance at Poirot. Had he noticed anything? But to my
relief he did not seem to be observing me. Anything unusual in my manner had
certainly escaped him.

He rose briskly to his feet.

“We have no time to lose. We must make our departure with all despatch.
All is well—the sea it will be calm!”

In the bustle of departure, I had no time for thinking, but once on board the
boat, secure from Poirot’s observation (he, as usual, was
“practising the method most excellent of Laverguier”) I pulled
myself together, and attacked the facts dispassionately. How much did Poirot
know? Was he aware that my acquaintance of the train and Bella Duveen were one
and the same? Why had he gone to the Hôtel du Phare? On my behalf as I had
believed? Or had I only fatuously thought so, and was this visit undertaken
with a deeper and more sinister purpose?

But in any case, why was he bent on finding this girl? Did he suspect her of
having seen Jack Renauld commit the crime? Or did he suspect—but that was
impossible! The girl had no grudge against the elder Renauld, no possible
motive for wishing his death. What had brought her back to the scene of the
murder? I went over the facts carefully. She must have left the train at Calais
where I parted from her that day. No wonder I had been unable to find her on
the boat. If she had dined in Calais, and then taken a train out to
Merlinville, she would have arrived at the Villa Geneviève just about the time
that Françoise said. What had she done when she left the house just after ten?
Presumably either gone to an hotel, or returned to Calais. And then? The crime
had been committed on Tuesday night. On Thursday morning, she was once more in
Merlinville. Had she ever left France at all? I doubted it very much. What kept
her there—the hope of seeing Jack Renauld? I had told her (as at the time
we believed) that he was on the high seasen routeto Buenos Ayres.
Possibly she was aware that theAnzorahad not sailed. But to know that
she must have seen Jack. Was that what Poirot was after? Had Jack Renauld,
returning to see Marthe Daubreuil, come face to face instead with Bella Duveen,
the girl he had heartlessly thrown over?

I began to see daylight. If that were indeed the case, it might furnish Jack
with the alibi he needed. Yet under those circumstances his silence seemed
difficult to explain. Why could he not have spoken out boldly? Did he fear for
this former entanglement of his to come to the ears of Marthe Daubreuil? I
shook my head, dissatisfied. The thing had been harmless enough, a foolish boy
and girl affair, and I reflected cynically that the son of a millionaire was
not likely to be thrown over by a penniless French girl, who moreover loved him
devotedly, without a much graver cause.

Altogether I found the affair puzzling and unsatisfactory. I disliked intensely
being associated with Poirot in hunting this girl down, but I could not see any
way of avoiding it, without revealing everything to him, and this, for some
reason, I was loath to do.

Poirot reappeared brisk and smiling at Dover, and our journey to London was
uneventful. It was past nine o’clock when we arrived, and I supposed that
we should return straight away to our rooms and do nothing till the morning.
But Poirot had other plans.

“We must lose no time,mon ami. The news of the arrest will not be
in the English papers until the day after tomorrow, but still we must lose no
time.”

I did not quite follow his reasoning, but I merely asked how he proposed to
find the girl.

“You remember Joseph Aarons, the theatrical agent? No? I assisted him in
a little matter of a Japanese wrestler. A pretty little problem, I must recount
it to you one day. He, without doubt, will be able to put us in the way of
finding out what we want to know.”

It took us some time to run Mr. Aarons to earth, and it was after midnight when
we finally managed it. He greeted Poirot with every evidence of warmth, and
professed himself ready to be of service to us in any way.

“There’s not much about the profession I don’t know,”
he said, beaming genially.

“Eh bien, M. Aarons, I desire to find a young girl called Bella
Duveen.”

“Bella Duveen. I know the name, but for the moment I can’t place
it. What’s her line?”

“That I do not know—but here is her photograph.”

Mr. Aarons studied it for a moment, then his face lighted.

“Got it!” He slapped his thigh. “The Dulcibella Kids, by the
Lord!”

“The Dulcibella Kids?”

“That’s it. They’re sisters. Acrobats, dancers and singers.
Give quite a good little turn. They’re in the provinces somewhere, I
believe—if they’re not resting. They’ve been on in Paris for
the last two or three weeks.”