After a moment of stress, such as I have just described, reaction is bound to
set in. I retired to rest that night on a note of triumph, but I awoke to
realize that I was by no means out of the wood. True, I could see no flaw in
the alibi I had so suddenly conceived. I had but to stick to my story, and I
failed to see how Bella could be convicted in face of it. It was not as though
there was any old friendship between us that could be raked up, and which might
lead them to suspect that I was committing perjury. It could be proved that in
actual fact I had only seen the girl on three occasions. No, I was still
satisfied with my idea—had not even Poirot admitted that it defeated him?

But there I felt the need of treading warily. All very well for my little
friend to admit himself momentarily nonplussed. I had far too much respect for
his abilities to conceive of him as being content to remain in that position. I
had a very humble opinion of my wits when it came to matching them against his.
Poirot would not take defeat lying down. Somehow or other, he would endeavour
to turn the tables on me, and that in the way, and at the moment, when I least
expected it.

We met at breakfast the following morning as though nothing had happened.
Poirot’s good temper was imperturbable, yet I thought I detected a film
of reserve in his manner which was new. After breakfast, I announced my
intention of going out for a stroll. A malicious gleam shot through
Poirot’s eyes.

“If it is information you seek, you need not be at the pains of deranging
yourself. I can tell you all you wish to know. The Dulcibella Sisters have
cancelled their contract, and have left Coventry for an unknown
destination.”

“Is that really so, Poirot?”

“You can take it from me, Hastings. I made inquiries the first thing this
morning. After all, what else did you expect?”

True enough, nothing else could be expected under the circumstances. Cinderella
had profited by the slight start I had been able to assure her, and would
certainly not lose a moment in removing herself from the reach of the pursuer.
It was what I had intended and planned. Nevertheless, I was aware of being
plunged into a network of fresh difficulties.

I had absolutely no means of communicating with the girl, and it was vital that
she should know the line of defence that had occurred to me, and which I was
prepared to carry out. Of course it was possible that she might try to send
word to me in some way or another, but I hardly thought it likely. She would
know the risk she ran of a message being intercepted by Poirot, thus setting
him on her track once more. Clearly her only course was to disappear utterly
for the time being.

But, in the meantime, what was Poirot doing? I studied him attentively. He was
wearing his most innocent air, and staring meditatively into the far distance.
He looked altogether too placid and supine to give me reassurance. I had
learned, with Poirot, that the less dangerous he looked, the more dangerous he
was. His quiescence alarmed me. Observing a troubled quality in my glance, he
smiled benignantly.

“You are puzzled, Hastings? You ask yourself why I do not launch myself
in pursuit?”

“Well—something of the kind.”

“It is what you would do, were you in my place. I understand that. But I
am not of those who enjoy rushing up and down a country seeking a needle in a
haystack, as you English say. No—let Mademoiselle Bella Duveen go.
Without doubt, I shall be able to find her when the time comes. Until then, I
am content to wait.”

I stared at him doubtfully. Was he seeking to mislead me? I had an irritating
feeling that, even now, he was master of the situation. My sense of superiority
was gradually waning. I had contrived the girl’s escape, and evolved a
brilliant scheme for saving her from the consequences of her rash act—but
I could not rest easy in my mind. Poirot’s perfect calm awakened a
thousand apprehensions.

“I suppose, Poirot,” I said rather diffidently, “I
mustn’t ask what your plans are? I’ve forfeited the right.”

“But not at all. There is no secret about them. We return to France
without delay.”

“We?”

“Precisely—‘we!’ You know very well that you
cannot afford to let Papa Poirot out of your sight. Eh, is it not so, my
friend? But remain in England by all means if you wish—”

I shook my head. He had hit the nail on the head. I could not afford to let him
out of my sight. Although I could not expect his confidence after what had
happened, I could still check his actions. The only danger to Bella lay with
him. Giraud and the French police were indifferent to her existence. At all
costs I must keep near Poirot.

Poirot observed me attentively as these reflections passed through my mind, and
gave a nod of satisfaction.

“I am right, am I not? And as you are quite capable of trying to follow
me, disguised with some absurdity such as a false beard—which every one
would perceive,bien entendu—I much prefer that we should voyage
together. It would annoy me greatly that any one should mock themselves at
you.”