We crossed from England by the evening boat, and the following morning saw us
in Saint-Omer, whither Jack Renauld had been taken. Poirot lost no time in
visiting M. Hautet. As he did not seem disposed to make any objections to my
accompanying him, I bore him company.

After various formalities and preliminaries, we were conducted to the examining
magistrate’s room. He greeted us cordially.

“I was told that you had returned to England, M. Poirot. I am glad to
find that such is not the case.”

“It is true that I went there, M. le juge, but it was only for a flying
visit. A side issue, but one that I fancied might repay investigation.”

“And it did—eh?”

Poirot shrugged his shoulders. M. Hautet nodded, sighing.

“We must resign ourselves, I fear. That animal Giraud, his manners are
abominable, but he is undoubtedly clever! Not much chance of that one making a
mistake.”

“You think not, M. le juge?”

It was the examining magistrate’s turn to shrug his shoulders.

“Eh bien, speaking frankly—in confidence,c’est
entendu—can you come to any other conclusion?”

“Frankly, M. le juge, there seem to me to be many points that are
obscure.”

“Such as—?”

But Poirot was not to be drawn.

“I have not yet tabulated them,” he remarked. “It was a
general reflection that I was making. I liked the young man, and should be
sorry to believe him guilty of such a hideous crime. By the way, what has he to
say for himself on the matter?”

The magistrate frowned.

“I cannot understand him. He seems incapable of putting up any sort of
defence. It has been most difficult to get him to answer questions. He contents
himself with a general denial, and beyond that takes refuge in a most obstinate
silence. I am interrogating him again tomorrow; perhaps you would like to be
present?”

We accepted the invitation withempressement.

“A distressing case,” said the magistrate with a sigh. “My
sympathy for Madame Renauld is profound.”

“How is Madame Renauld?”

“She has not yet recovered consciousness. It is merciful in a way, poor
woman, she is being spared much. The doctors say that there is no danger, but
that when she comes to herself she must be kept as quiet as possible. It was, I
understand, quite as much the shock as the fall which caused her present state.
It would be terrible if her brain became unhinged; but I should not wonder at
all—no, really, not at all.”