“Congratulations, M. Jack,” said Poirot, wringing the lad warmly by
the hand.

Young Renauld had come to us as soon as he was liberated—before starting
for Merlinville to rejoin Marthe and his mother. Stonor accompanied him. His
heartiness was in strong contrast to the lad’s wan looks. It was plain
that the boy was on the verge of a nervous breakdown. Although delivered from
the immediate peril that was hanging over him, the circumstances of his release
were too painful to let him feel full relief. He smiled mournfully at Poirot,
and said in a low voice:

“I went through it to protect her, and now it’s all no use!”

“You could hardly expect the girl to accept the price of your
life,” remarked Stonor dryly. “She was bound to come forward when
she saw you heading straight for the guillotine.”

“Eh ma foi!and you were heading for it too!” added Poirot,
with a slight twinkle. “You would have had Maître Grosíer’s death
from rage on your conscience if you had gone on.”

“He was a well meaning ass, I suppose,” said Jack. “But he
worried me horribly. You see, I couldn’t very well take him into my
confidence. But, my God! what’s going to happen about Bella?”

“If I were you,” said Poirot frankly, “I should not distress
myself unduly. The French Courts are very lenient to youth and beauty, and thecrime passionnel. A clever lawyer will make out a great case of
extenuating circumstances. It will not be pleasant for you—”

“I don’t care about that. You see, M. Poirot, in a way Idofeel guilty of my father’s murder. But for me, and my
entanglement with this girl, he would be alive and well today. And then my
cursed carelessness in taking away the wrong overcoat. I can’t help
feeling responsible for his death. It will haunt me for ever!”

“No, no,” I said soothingly.

“Of course it’s horrible to me to think that Bella killed my
father,” resumed Jack, “but I’d treated her shamefully. After
I met Marthe, and realized I’d made a mistake, I ought to have written
and told her so honestly. But I was so terrified of a row, and of its coming to
Marthe’s ears, and her thinking there was more in it than there ever had
been, that—well, I was a coward, and went on hoping the thing would die
down of itself. I just drifted, in fact—not realizing that I was driving
the poor kid desperate. If she’d really knifed me, as she meant to, I
should have got no more than my deserts. And the way she’s come forward
now is downright plucky. I’d have stood the racket, you know—up to
the end.”

He was silent for a moment or two, and then burst out on another tack:

“What gets me is why the Governor should be wandering about in
underclothes and my overcoat at that time of night. I suppose he’d just
given the foreign johnnies the slip, and my mother must have made a mistake
about its being 2 o’clock when they came. Or—or, it wasn’t
all a frame up, was it? I mean, my mother didn’t
think—couldn’t think—that—that it wasme?”

Poirot reassured him quickly.

“No, no, M. Jack. Have no fears on that score. As for the rest, I will
explain it to you one of these days. It is rather curious. But will you recount
to us exactly what did occur on that terrible evening?”

“There’s very little to tell. I came from Cherbourg, as I told you,
in order to see Marthe before going to the other end of the world. The train
was late, and I decided to take the short cut across the golf links. I could
easily get into the grounds of the Villa Marguerite from there. I had nearly
reached the place when—”

He paused and swallowed.

“Yes?”

“I heard a terrible cry. It wasn’t loud—a sort of choke and
gasp—but it frightened me. For a moment I stood rooted to the spot. Then
I came round the corner of a bush. There was moonlight. I saw the grave, and a
figure lying face downwards, with a dagger sticking in the back. And
then—and then—I looked up and sawher. She was looking at
me as though she saw a ghost—it’s what she must have thought me at
first—all expression seemed frozen out of her face by horror. And then
she gave a cry, and turned and ran.”

He stopped, trying to master his emotion.

“And afterwards?” asked Poirot gently.