I have confused memories of the further events of that night. Poirot seemed
deaf to my repeated questions. He was engaged in overwhelming Françoise with
reproaches for not having told him of Mrs. Renauld’s change of sleeping
quarters.

I caught him by the shoulder, determined to attract his attention, and make
myself heard.

“But youmusthave known,” I expostulated. “You were
taken up to see her this afternoon.”

Poirot deigned to attend to me for a brief moment.

“She had been wheeled on a sofa into the middle room—her
boudoir,” he explained.

“But, monsieur,” cried Françoise, “Madame changed her room
almost immediately after the crime! The associations—they were too
distressing!”

“Then why was I not told,” vociferated Poirot, striking the table,
and working himself into a first-class passion. “I demand
you—why—was—I—not—told? You are an old woman
completely imbecile! And Léonie and Denise are no better. All of you are triple
idiots! Your stupidity has nearly caused the death of your mistress. But for
this courageous child—”

He broke off, and, darting across the room to where the girl was bending over
ministering to Mrs. Renauld, he embraced her with Gallic fervour—slightly
to my annoyance.

I was aroused from my condition of mental fog by a sharp command from Poirot to
fetch the doctor immediately on Mrs. Renauld’s behalf. After that, I
might summon the police. And he added, to complete my dudgeon:

“It will hardly be worth your while to return here. I shall be too busy
to attend to you, and of Mademoiselle here I make agarde-malad.”

I retired with what dignity I could command. Having done my errands, I returned
to the hotel. I understood next to nothing of what had occurred. The events of
the night seemed fantastic and impossible. Nobody would answer my questions.
Nobody had seemed to hear them. Angrily, I flung myself into bed, and slept the
sleep of the bewildered and utterly exhausted.

I awoke to find the sun pouring in through the open windows and Poirot, neat
and smiling, sitting beside the bed.

“Enfinyou wake! But it is that you are a famous sleeper,
Hastings! Do you know that it is nearly eleven o’clock?”

I groaned and put a hand to my head.

“I must have been dreaming,” I said. “Do you know, I actually
dreamt that we found Marthe Daubreuil’s body in Mrs. Renauld’s
room, and that you declared her to have murdered Mr. Renauld?”

“You were not dreaming. All that is quite true.”

“But Bella Duveen killed Mr. Renauld?”

“Oh, no, Hastings, she did not! She said she did—yes—but that
was to save the man she loved from the guillotine.”

“What?”

“Remember Jack Renauld’s story. They both arrived on the scene at
the same instant, and each took the other to be the perpetrator of the crime.
The girl stares at him in horror, and then with a cry rushes away. But, when
she hears that the crime has been brought home to him, she cannot bear it, and
comes forward to accuse herself and save him from certain death.”