WHAT MYLES remembered of Falworth loomed great and grand and big, as
things do in the memory of childhood, but even memory could not make
Falworth the equal of Devlen Castle, when, as he and Diccon Bowman rode
out of Devlentown across the great, rude stone bridge that spanned the
river, he first saw, rising above the crowns of the trees, those
huge hoary walls, and the steep roofs and chimneys clustered thickly
together, like the roofs and chimneys of a town.

The castle was built upon a plateau-like rise of ground, which was
enclosed by the outer wall. It was surrounded on three sides by a
loop-like bend of the river, and on the fourth was protected by a deep,
broad, artificial moat, almost as wide as the stream from which it was
fed. The road from the town wound for a little distance along by the
edge of this moat. As Myles and the old bowman galloped by, with the
answering echo of their horses' hoof-beats rattling back from the smooth
stone face of the walls, the lad looked up, wondering at the height and
strength of the great ancient fortress. In his air-castle building Myles
had pictured the Earl receiving him as the son of his one-time comrade
in arms--receiving him, perhaps, with somewhat of the rustic warmth that
he knew at Crosbey-Dale; but now, as he stared at those massive walls
from below, and realized his own insignificance and the greatness of
this great Earl, he felt the first keen, helpless ache of homesickness
shoot through his breast, and his heart yearned for Crosbey-Holt again.

Then they thundered across the bridge that spanned the moat, and through
the dark shadows of the great gaping gate-way, and Diccon, bidding him
stay for a moment, rode forward to bespeak the gate-keeper.

The gate-keeper gave the two in charge of one of the men-at-arms who
were lounging upon a bench in the archway, who in turn gave them into
the care of one of the house-servants in the outer court-yard. So,
having been passed from one to another, and having answered many
questions, Myles in due time found himself in the outer waiting-room
sitting beside Diccon Bowman upon a wooden bench that stood along the
wall under the great arch of a glazed window.

For a while the poor country lad sat stupidly bewildered. He was aware
of people coming and going; he was aware of talk and laughter sounding
around him; but he thought of nothing but his aching homesickness and
the oppression of his utter littleness in the busy life of this great
castle.

Meantime old Diccon Bowman was staring about him with huge interest,
every now and then nudging his young master, calling his attention now
to this and now to that, until at last the lad began to awaken somewhat
from his despondency to the things around. Besides those servants and
others who came and went, and a knot of six or eight men-at-arms with
bills and pole-axes, who stood at the farther door-way talking together
in low tones, now and then broken by a stifled laugh, was a group of
four young squires, who lounged upon a bench beside a door-way hidden by
an arras, and upon them Myles's eyes lit with a sudden interest. Three
of the four were about his own age, one was a year or two older, and
all four were dressed in the black-and-yellow uniform of the house of
Beaumont.

Myles plucked the bowman by the sleeve. "Be they squires, Diccon?" said
he, nodding towards the door.

"Eh?" said Diccon. "Aye; they be squires."

"And will my station be with them?" asked the boy.

"Aye; an the Earl take thee to service, thou'lt haply be taken as
squire."

Myles stared at them, and then of a sudden was aware that the young men
were talking of him. He knew it by the way they eyed him askance, and
spoke now and then in one another's ears. One of the four, a gay young
fellow, with long riding-boots laced with green laces, said a few words,
the others gave a laugh, and poor Myles, knowing how ungainly he must
seem to them, felt the blood rush to his cheeks, and shyly turned his
head.

Suddenly, as though stirred by an impulse, the same lad who had just
created the laugh arose from the bench, and came directly across the
room to where Myles and the bowman sat.

"Give thee good-den," said he. "What be'st thy name and whence comest
thou, an I may make bold so to ask?"

"My name is Myles Falworth," said Myles; "and I come from Crosbey-Dale
bearing a letter to my Lord."

"Never did I hear of Crosbey-Dale," said the squire. "But what seekest
here, if so be I may ask that much?"

"I come seeking service," said Myles, "and would enter as an esquire
such as ye be in my Lord's household."

Myles's new acquaintance grinned. "Thou'lt make a droll squire to wait
in a Lord's household," said he. "Hast ever been in such service?"

"Nay," said Myles, "I have only been at school, and learned Latin and
French and what not. But Diccon Bowman here hath taught me use of arms."

The young squire laughed outright. "By'r Lady, thy talk doth tickle
me, friend Myles," said he. "Think'st thou such matters will gain thee
footing here? But stay! Thou didst say anon that thou hadst a letter to
my Lord. From whom is it?"

"It is from my father," said Myles. "He is of noble blood, but fallen in
estate. He is a kinsman of my Lord's, and one time his comrade in arms."

"Sayst so?" said the other. "Then mayhap thy chances are not so
ill, after all." Then, after a moment, he added: "My name is Francis
Gascoyne, and I will stand thy friend in this matter. Get thy letter
ready, for my Lord and his Grace of York are within and come forth anon.
The Archbishop is on his way to Dalworth, and my Lord escorts him so far
as Uppingham. I and those others are to go along. Dost thou know my Lord
by sight?"

"Nay," said Myles, "I know him not."

"Then I will tell thee when he cometh. Listen!" said he, as a confused
clattering sounded in the court-yard without. "Yonder are the horses
now. They come presently. Busk thee with thy letter, friend Myles."

The attendants who passed through the anteroom now came and went more
hurriedly, and Myles knew that the Earl must be about to come forth.
He had hardly time to untie his pouch, take out the letter, and tie the
strings again when the arras at the door-way was thrust suddenly aside,
and a tall thin squire of about twenty came forth, said some words to
the young men upon the bench, and then withdrew again. Instantly the
squires arose and took their station beside the door-way. A sudden hush
fell upon all in the room, and the men-at-arms stood in a line against
the wall, stiff and erect as though all at once transformed to figures
of iron. Once more the arras was drawn back, and in the hush Myles heard
voices in the other room.

"My Lord cometh," whispered Gascoyne in his ear, and Myles felt his
heart leap in answer.

The next moment two noblemen came into the anteroom followed by a crowd
of gentlemen, squires, and pages. One of the two was a dignitary of the
Church; the other Myles instantly singled out as the Earl of Mackworth.