He was a tall man, taller even than Myles's father. He had a thin
face, deep-set bushy eyebrows, and a hawk nose. His upper lip was clean
shaven, but from his chin a flowing beard of iron-gray hung nearly to
his waist. He was clad in a riding-gown of black velvet that hung a
little lower than the knee, trimmed with otter fur and embroidered with
silver goshawks--the crest of the family of Beaumont.

A light shirt of link mail showed beneath the gown as he walked, and a
pair of soft undressed leather riding-boots were laced as high as the
knee, protecting his scarlet hose from mud and dirt. Over his shoulders
he wore a collar of enamelled gold, from which hung a magnificent
jewelled pendant, and upon his fist he carried a beautiful Iceland
falcon.

As Myles stood staring, he suddenly heard Gascoyne's voice whisper in
his ear, "Yon is my Lord; go forward and give him thy letter."

Scarcely knowing what he did, he walked towards the Earl like a machine,
his heart pounding within him and a great humming in his ears. As he
drew near, the nobleman stopped for a moment and stared at him, and
Myles, as in a dream, kneeled, and presented the letter. The Earl took
it in his hand, turned it this way and that, looked first at the bearer,
then at the packet, and then at the bearer again.

"Who art thou?" said he; "and what is the matter thou wouldst have of
me?"

"I am Myles Falworth," said the lad, in a low voice; "and I come seeking
service with you."

The Earl drew his thick eyebrows quickly together, and shot a keen
look at the lad. "Falworth?" said he, sharply--"Falworth? I know no
Falworth!"

"The letter will tell you," said Myles. "It is from one once dear to
you."

The Earl took the letter, and handing it to a gentleman who stood near,
bade him break the seal. "Thou mayst stand," said he to Myles; "needst
not kneel there forever." Then, taking the opened parchment again, he
glanced first at the face and then at the back, and, seeing its length,
looked vexed. Then he read for an earnest moment or two, skipping from
line to line. Presently he folded the letter and thrust it into the
pouch at his side. "So it is, your Grace," said he to the lordly
prelate, "that we who have luck to rise in the world must ever suffer by
being plagued at all times and seasons. Here is one I chanced to know a
dozen years ago, who thinks he hath a claim upon me, and saddles me
with his son. I must e'en take the lad, too, for the sake of peace and
quietness." He glanced around, and seeing Gascoyne, who had drawn near,
beckoned to him. "Take me this fellow," said he, "to the buttery, and
see him fed; and then to Sir James Lee, and have his name entered in the
castle books. And stay, sirrah," he added; "bid me Sir James, if it may
be so done, to enter him as a squire-at-arms. Methinks he will be better
serving so than in the household, for he appeareth a soothly rough cub
for a page."

Myles did look rustic enough, standing clad in frieze in the midst of
that gay company, and a murmur of laughter sounded around, though he
was too bewildered to fully understand that he was the cause of the
merriment. Then some hand drew him back--it was Gascoyne's--there was a
bustle of people passing, and the next minute they were gone, and
Myles and old Diccon Bowman and the young squire were left alone in the
anteroom.

Gascoyne looked very sour and put out. "Murrain upon it!" said he; "here
is good sport spoiled for me to see thee fed. I wish no ill to thee,
friend, but I would thou hadst come this afternoon or to-morrow."

"Methinks I bring trouble and dole to every one," said Myles, somewhat
bitterly. "It would have been better had I never come to this place,
methinks."

His words and tone softened Gascoyne a little. "Ne'er mind," said the
squire; "it was not thy fault, and is past mending now. So come and fill
thy stomach, in Heaven's name."

Perhaps not the least hard part of the whole trying day for Myles
was his parting with Diccon. Gascoyne and he had accompanied the old
retainer to the outer gate, in the archway of which they now stood; for
without a permit they could go no farther. The old bowman led by the
bridle-rein the horse upon which Myles had ridden that morning. His own
nag, a vicious brute, was restive to be gone, but Diccon held him in
with tight rein. He reached down, and took Myles's sturdy brown hand in
his crooked, knotted grasp.

"Farewell, young master," he croaked, tremulously, with a watery glimmer
in his pale eyes. "Thou wilt not forget me when I am gone?"

"Nay," said Myles; "I will not forget thee."

"Aye, aye," said the old man, looking down at him, and shaking his head
slowly from side to side; "thou art a great tall sturdy fellow now, yet
have I held thee on my knee many and many's the time, and dandled thee
when thou wert only a little weeny babe. Be still, thou devil's limb!"
he suddenly broke off, reining back his restive raw-boned steed,
which began again to caper and prance. Myles was not sorry for the
interruption; he felt awkward and abashed at the parting, and at the old
man's reminiscences, knowing that Gascoyne's eyes were resting amusedly
upon the scene, and that the men-at-arms were looking on. Certainly
old Diccon did look droll as he struggled vainly with his vicious
high-necked nag. "Nay, a murrain on thee! an' thou wilt go, go!" cried
he at last, with a savage dig of his heels into the animal's ribs,
and away they clattered, the led-horse kicking up its heels as a final
parting, setting Gascoyne fairly alaughing. At the bend of the road the
old man turned and nodded his head; the next moment he had disappeared
around the angle of the wall, and it seemed to Myles, as he stood
looking after him, as though the last thread that bound him to his
old life had snapped and broken. As he turned he saw that Gascoyne was
looking at him.

"Dost feel downhearted?" said the young squire, curiously.

"Nay," said Myles, brusquely. Nevertheless his throat was tight and dry,
and the word came huskily in spite of himself.