A boy's life is of a very flexible sort. It takes but a little while for
it to shape itself to any new surroundings in which it may be thrown, to
make itself new friends, to settle itself to new habits; and so it was
that Myles fell directly into the ways of the lads of Devlen. On his
first morning, as he washed his face and hands with the other squires
and pages in a great tank of water in the armory court-yard, he
presently found himself splashing and dashing with the others, laughing
and shouting as loud as any, and calling some by their Christian names
as though he had known them for years instead of overnight. During
chapel he watched with sympathetic delight the covert pranks of the
youngsters during the half-hour that Father Emmanuel droned his Latin,
and with his dagger point he carved his own name among the many cut
deep into the back of the bench before him. When, after breakfast, the
squires poured like school-boys into the great armory to answer to the
roll-call for daily exercise, he came storming in with the rest, beating
the lad in front of him with his cap.

Boys are very keen to feel the influence of a forceful character. A lad
with a strong will is quick to reach his proper level as a greater or
lesser leader among the others, and Myles was of just the masterful
nature to make his individuality felt among the Devlen squires. He was
quick enough to yield obedience upon all occasions to proper authority,
but would never bend an inch to the usurpation of tyranny. In the school
at St. Mary's Priory at Crosbey-Dale he would submit without a murmur or
offer of resistance to chastisement by old Father Ambrose, the
regular teacher; but once, when the fat old monk was sick, and a great
long-legged strapping young friar, who had temporarily taken his place,
undertook to administer punishment, Myles, with a wrestling trip, flung
him sprawling backward over a bench into the midst of a shoal of small
boys amid a hubbub of riotous confusion. He had been flogged soundly
for it under the supervision of Prior Edward himself; but so soon as
his punishment was over, he assured the prior very seriously that should
like occasion again happen he would act in the same manner, flogging or
no flogging.

It was this bold, outspoken spirit that gained him at once friends and
enemies at Devlen, and though it first showed itself in what was but a
little matter, nevertheless it set a mark upon him that singled him out
from the rest, and, although he did not suspect it at the time, called
to him the attention of Sir James Lee himself, who regarded him as a lad
of free and frank spirit.

The first morning after the roll-call in the armory, as Walter Blunt,
the head bachelor, rolled up the slip of parchment, and the temporary
silence burst forth into redoubled noise and confusion, each lad arming
himself from a row of racks that stood along the wall, he beckoned Myles
to him.

"My Lord himself hath spoken to Sir James Lee concerning thee," said he.
"Sir James maintaineth that he will not enter thee into the body till
thou hast first practised for a while at the pels, and shown what thou
canst do at broadsword. Hast ever fought at the pel?"

"Aye," answered Myles, "and that every day of my life sin I became
esquire four years ago, saving only Sundays and holy days."

"With shield and broadsword?"

"Sometimes," said Myles, "and sometimes with the short sword."

"Sir James would have thee come to the tilt-yard this morn; he himself
will take thee in hand to try what thou canst do. Thou mayst take the
arms upon yonder rack, and use them until otherwise bidden. Thou seest
that the number painted above it on the wall is seventeen; that will be
thy number for the nonce."

So Myles armed himself from his rack as the others were doing from
theirs. The armor was rude and heavy, used to accustom the body to the
weight of the iron plates rather than for any defence. It consisted of
a cuirass, or breastplate of iron, opening at the side with hinges, and
catching with hooks and eyes; epauliers, or shoulder-plates; arm-plates
and leg-pieces; and a bascinet, or open-faced helmet. A great triangular
shield covered with leather and studded with bosses of iron, and a heavy
broadsword, pointed and dulled at the edges, completed the equipment.

The practice at the pels which Myles was bidden to attend comprised the
chief exercise of the day with the esquires of young cadet soldiers of
that time, and in it they learned not only all the strokes, cuts, and
thrusts of sword-play then in vogue, but also toughness, endurance, and
elastic quickness. The pels themselves consisted of upright posts of
ash or oak, about five feet six inches in height, and in girth somewhat
thicker than a man's thigh. They were firmly planted in the ground, and
upon them the strokes of the broadsword were directed.

At Devlen the pels stood just back of the open and covered tilting
courts and the archery ranges, and thither those lads not upon household
duty were marched every morning excepting Fridays and Sundays, and were
there exercised under the direction of Sir James Lee and two assistants.
The whole company was divided into two, sometimes into three parties,
each of which took its turn at the exercise, delivering at the word
of command the various strokes, feints, attacks, and retreats as the
instructors ordered.

After five minutes of this mock battle the perspiration began to pour
down the faces, and the breath to come thick and short; but it was not
until the lads could absolutely endure no more that the order was given
to rest, and they were allowed to fling themselves panting upon the
ground, while another company took its place at the triple row of posts.

As Myles struck and hacked at the pel assigned to him, Sir James Lee
stood beside him watching him in grim silence. The lad did his best to
show the knight all that he knew of upper cut, under cut, thrust, and
back-hand stroke, but it did not seem to him that Sir James was very
well satisfied with his skill.

"Thou fightest like a clodpole," said the old man. "Ha, that stroke
was but ill-recovered. Strike me it again, and get thou in guard more
quickly."

Myles repeated the stroke.

"Pest!" cried Sir James. "Thou art too slow by a week. Here, strike thou
the blow at me."

Myles hesitated. Sir James held a stout staff in his hand, but otherwise
he was unarmed.

"Strike, I say!" said Sir James. "What stayest thou for? Art afeard?"

It was Myles's answer that set the seal of individuality upon him.
"Nay," said he, boldly, "I am not afeard. I fear not thee nor any man!"
So saying, he delivered the stroke at Sir James with might and main. It
was met with a jarring blow that made his wrist and arm tingle, and the
next instant he received a stroke upon the bascinet that caused his ears
to ring and the sparks to dance and fly before his eyes.

"Pardee!" said Sir James, grimly. "An I had had a mace in my hand, I
would have knocked thy cockerel brains out that time. Thou mayst take
that blow for answering me so pertly. And now we are quits. Now strike
me the stroke again an thou art not afeard."

Myles's eyes watered in spite of himself, and he shut the lids tight to
wink the dimness away. Nevertheless he spoke up undauntedly as before.
"Aye, marry, will I strike it again," said he; and this time he was
able to recover guard quickly enough to turn Sir James's blow with his
shield, instead of receiving it upon his head.

"So!" said Sir James. "Now mind thee of this, that when thou strikest
that lower cut at the legs, recover thyself more quickly. Now, then,
strike me it at the pel."

Gascoyne and other of the lads who were just then lying stretched out
upon the grass beneath, a tree at the edge of the open court where stood
the pels, were interested spectators of the whole scene. Not one of them
in their memory had heard Sir James so answered face to face as Myles
had answered him, and, after all, perhaps the lad himself would not
have done so had he been longer a resident in the squires' quarters at
Devlen.

"By 'r Lady! thou art a cool blade, Myles," said Gascoyne, as they
marched back to the armory again. "Never heard I one bespeak Sir James
as thou hast done this day."

"And, after all," said another of the young squires, "old Bruin was not
so ill-pleased, methinks. That was a shrewd blow he fetched thee on the
crown, Falworth. Marry, I would not have had it on my own skull for a
silver penny."