Every one knows the disagreeable, lurking discomfort that follows a
quarrel--a discomfort that imbitters the very taste of life for the time
being. Such was the dull distaste that Myles felt that morning after
what had passed in the dormitory. Every one in the proximity of such
an open quarrel feels a reflected constraint, and in Myles's mind was a
disagreeable doubt whether that constraint meant disapproval of him or
of his late enemies.

It seemed to him that Gascoyne added the last bitter twang to his
unpleasant feelings when, half an hour later, they marched with the
others to chapel.

"Why dost thou breed such trouble for thyself, Myles?" said he,
recurring to what he had already said. "Is it not foolish for thee to
come hither to this place, and then not submit to the ways thereof, as
the rest of us do?"

"Thou talkest not like a true friend to chide me thus," said Myles,
sullenly; and he withdrew his arm from his friend's.

"Marry, come up!" said Gascoyne; "an I were not thy friend, I would let
thee jog thine own way. It aches not my bones to have thine drubbed."

Just then they entered the chapel, and words that might have led to a
quarrel were brought to a close.

Myles was not slow to see that he had the ill will of the head of their
company. That morning in the armory he had occasion to ask some question
of Blunt; the head squire stared coldly at him for a moment, gave him a
short, gruff answer, and then, turning his back abruptly, began talking
with one of the other bachelors. Myles flushed hot at the other's
insulting manner, and looked quickly around to see if any of the others
had observed what had passed. It was a comfort to him to see that all
were too busy arming themselves to think of anything else; nevertheless,
his face was very lowering as he turned away.

"Some day I will show him that I am as good a man as he," he muttered to
himself. "An evil-hearted dog to put shame upon me!"

The storm was brewing and ready to break.


That day was exceptionally hot and close, and permission had been asked
by and granted to those squires not on duty to go down to the river for
a bath after exercise at the pels. But as Myles replaced his arms in
the rack, a little page came with a bidding to come to Sir James in his
office.

"Look now," said Myles, "here is just my ill-fortune. Why might he not
have waited an hour longer rather than cause me to miss going with ye?"

"Nay," said Gascoyne, "let not that grieve thee, Myles. Wilkes and I
will wait for thee in the dormitory--will we not, Edmund? Make thou
haste and go to Sir James."

Sir James was sitting at the table studying over a scroll of parchment,
when Myles entered his office and stood before him at the table.

"Well, boy," said he, laying aside the parchment and looking up at the
lad, "I have tried thee fairly for these few days, and may say that I
have found thee worthy to be entered upon the rolls as esquire of the
body."

"I give thee thanks, sir," said Myles.

The knight nodded his head in acknowledgement, but did not at once give
the word of dismissal that Myles had expected. "Dost mean to write thee
a letter home soon?" said he, suddenly.

"Aye," said Myles, gaping in great wonderment at the strangeness of the
question.

"Then when thou dost so write," said Sir James, "give thou my deep
regards to thy father." Then he continued, after a brief pause. "Him did
I know well in times gone by, and we were right true friends in hearty
love, and for his sake I would befriend thee--that is, in so much as is
fitting."

"Sir," said Myles; but Sir James held up his hand, and he stopped short
in his thanks.

"But, boy," said he, "that which I sent for thee for to tell thee was of
more import than these. Dost thou know that thy father is an attainted
outlaw?"

"Nay," cried Myles, his cheeks blazing up as red as fire; "who sayeth
that of him lieth in his teeth."

"Thou dost mistake me," said Sir James, quietly. "It is sometimes no
shame to be outlawed and banned. Had it been so, I would not have told
thee thereof, nor have bidden thee send my true love to thy father, as
I did but now. But, boy, certes he standest continually in great
danger--greater than thou wottest of. Were it known where he lieth hid,
it might be to his undoing and utter ruin. Methought that belike thou
mightest not know that; and so I sent for thee for to tell thee that it
behoovest thee to say not one single word concerning him to any of these
new friends of thine, nor who he is, nor what he is."

"But how came my father to be so banned?" said Myles, in a constrained
and husky voice, and after a long time of silence.

"That I may not tell thee just now," said the old knight, "only
this--that I have been bidden to make it known to thee that thy father
hath an enemy full as powerful as my Lord the Earl himself, and
that through that enemy all his ill-fortune--his blindness and
everything--hath come. Moreover, did this enemy know where thy father
lieth, he would slay him right speedily."

"Sir," cried Myles, violently smiting his open palm upon the table,
"tell me who this man is, and I will kill him!"

Sir James smiled grimly. "Thou talkest like a boy," said he. "Wait until
thou art grown to be a man. Mayhap then thou mayst repent thee of these
bold words, for one time this enemy of thy father's was reckoned the
foremost knight in England, and he is now the King's dear friend and a
great lord."

"But," said Myles, after another long time of heavy silence, "will not
my Lord then befriend me for the sake of my father, who was one time his
dear comrade?"

Sir James shook his head. "It may not be," said he. "Neither thou nor
thy father must look for open favor from the Earl. An he befriended
Falworth, and it came to be known that he had given him aid or succor,
it might belike be to his own undoing. No, boy; thou must not even look
to be taken into the household to serve with gentlemen as the other
squires do serve, but must even live thine own life here and fight thine
own way."

Myles's eyes blazed. "Then," cried he, fiercely, "it is shame and
attaint upon my Lord the Earl, and cowardice as well, and never will I
ask favor of him who is so untrue a friend as to turn his back upon a
comrade in trouble as he turneth his back upon my father."

"Thou art a foolish boy," said Sir James with a bitter smile, "and
knowest naught of the world. An thou wouldst look for man to befriend
man to his own danger, thou must look elsewhere than on this earth. Was
I not one time Mackworth's dear friend as well as thy father? It could
cost him naught to honor me, and here am I fallen to be a teacher of
boys. Go to! thou art a fool."

Then, after a little pause of brooding silence, he went on to say that
the Earl was no better or worse than the rest of the world. That men of
his position had many jealous enemies, ever seeking their ruin, and
that such must look first of all each to himself, or else be certainly
ruined, and drag down others in that ruin. Myles was silenced, but the
bitterness had entered his heart, and abided with him for many a day
afterwards.

Perhaps Sir James read his feelings in his frank face, for he sat
looking curiously at him, twirling his grizzled mustache the while.
"Thou art like to have hard knocks of it, lad, ere thou hast gotten thee
safe through the world," said he, with more kindness in his harsh voice
than was usual. "But get thee not into fights before thy time." Then he
charged the boy very seriously to live at peace with his fellow-squires,
and for his father's sake as well as his own to enter into none of the
broils that were so frequent in their quarters.

It was with this special admonition against brawling that Myles was
dismissed, to enter, before five minutes had passed, into the first
really great fight of his life.


Besides Gascoyne and Wilkes, he found gathered in the dormitory six
or eight of the company of squires who were to serve that day upon
household duty; among others, Walter Blunt and three other bachelors,
who were changing their coarse service clothes for others more fit for
the household.

"Why didst thou tarry so long, Myles?" said Gascoyne, as he entered.
"Methought thou wert never coming."

"Where goest thou, Falworth?" called Blunt from the other end of the
room, where he was lacing his doublet.

Just now Myles had no heart in the swimming or sport of any sort, but he
answered, shortly, "I go to the river to swim."

"Nay," said Blunt, "thou goest not forth from the castle to-day. Hast
thou forgot how thou didst answer me back about fetching the water
this morning? This day thou must do penance, so go thou straight to the
armory and scour thou up my breastplate."

From the time he had arisen that morning everything had gone wrong with
Myles. He had felt himself already outrated in rendering service to
the bachelors, he had quarrelled with the head of the esquires, he had
nearly quarrelled with Gascoyne, and then had come the bitterest and
worst of all, the knowledge that his father was an outlaw, and that
the Earl would not stretch out a hand to aid him or to give him any
countenance. Blunt's words brought the last bitter cut to his heart,
and they stung him to fury. For a while he could not answer, but stood
glaring with a face fairly convulsed with passion at the young man, who
continued his toilet, unconscious of the wrath of the new recruit.

Gascoyne and Wilkes, accepting Myles's punishment as a thing of course,
were about to leave the dormitory when Myles checked them.

"Stop, Francis!" he cried, hoarsely. "Thinkest thou that I will stay
behind to do yon dog's dirty work? No; I go with ye."

A moment or two of dumb, silent amazement followed his bold words; then
Blunt cried, "Art thou mad?"

"Nay," answered Myles in the same hoarse voice, "I am not mad. I tell
thee a better man than thou shouldst not stay me from going an I list to
go.

"I will break thy cockerel head for that speech," said Blunt, furiously.
He stooped as he spoke, and picked up a heavy clog that lay at his feet.

It was no insignificant weapon either. The shoes of those days were
sometimes made of cloth, and had long pointed toes stuffed with tow or
wool. In muddy weather thick heavy clogs or wooden soles were strapped,
like a skate, to the bottom of the foot. That clog which Blunt had
seized was perhaps eighteen or twenty inches long, two or two and a half
inches thick at the heel, tapering to a point at the toe. As the older
lad advanced, Gascoyne stepped between him and his victim.

"Do not harm him, Blunt," he pleaded. "Bear thou in mind how new-come he
is among us. He knoweth not our ways as yet."

"Stand thou back, Gascoyne," said Blunt, harshly, as he thrust him
aside. "I will teach him our ways so that he will not soon forget them."

Close to Myles's feet was another clog like that one which Blunt held.
He snatched it up, and set his back against the wall, with a white face
and a heart beating heavily and tumultuously, but with courage steeled
to meet the coming encounter. There was a hard, grim look in his blue
eyes that, for a moment perhaps, quelled the elder lad. He hesitated.
"Tom! Wat! Ned!" he called to the other bachelors, "come hither, and
lend me a hand with this knave."

"An ye come nigh me," panted Myles, "I will brain the first within
reach."

Then Gascoyne dodged behind the others, and, without being seen, slipped
out of the room for help.

The battle that followed was quick, sharp, and short. As Blunt strode
forward, Myles struck, and struck with might and main, but he was too
excited to deliver his blow with calculation. Blunt parried it with the
clog he held, and the next instant, dropping his weapon, gripped Myles
tight about the body, pinning his arms to his sides.

Myles also dropped the clog he held, and, wrenching out his right
arm with a sudden heave, struck Blunt full in the face, and then with
another blow sent him staggering back. It all passed in an instant; the
next the three other bachelors were upon him, catching him by the body,
the arms, the legs. For a moment or two they swayed and stumbled hither
and thither, and then down they fell in a struggling heap.

Myles fought like a wild-cat, kicking, struggling, scratching; striking
with elbows and fists. He caught one of the three by his collar, and
tore his jacket open from the neck to the waist; he drove his foot into
the pit of the stomach of another, and knocked him breathless. The other
lads not in the fight stood upon the benches and the beds around, but
such was the awe inspired by the prestige of the bachelors that not one
of them dared to lend hand to help him, and so Myles fought his fierce
battle alone.

But four to one were odds too great, and though Myles struggled as
fiercely as ever, by-and-by it was with less and less resistance.

Blunt had picked up the clog he had dropped when he first attacked the
lad, and now stood over the struggling heap, white with rage, the blood
running from his lip, cut and puffed where Myles had struck him, and
murder looking out from his face, if ever it looked out of the face of
any mortal being.

"Hold him a little," said he, fiercely, "and I will still him for you."

Even yet it was no easy matter for the others to do his bidding, but
presently he got his chance and struck a heavy, cruel blow at Myles's
head. Myles only partly warded it with his arm. Hitherto he had fought
in silence, now he gave a harsh cry.

"Holy Saints!" cried Edmund Wilkes. "They will kill him."

Blunt struck two more blows, both of them upon the body, and then at
last they had the poor boy down, with his face upon the ground and his
arms pinned to his sides, and Blunt, bracing himself for the stroke,
with a grin of rage raised a heavy clog for one terrible blow that
should finish the fight.