Perhaps there is nothing more delightful in the romance of boyhood than
the finding of some secret hiding-place whither a body may creep away
from the bustle of the world's life, to nestle in quietness for an hour
or two. More especially is such delightful if it happen that, by
peeping from out it, one may look down upon the bustling matters of
busy every-day life, while one lies snugly hidden away unseen by any, as
though one were in some strange invisible world of one's own.

Such a hiding-place as would have filled the heart of almost any boy
with sweet delight Myles and Gascoyne found one summer afternoon. They
called it their Eyry, and the name suited well for the roosting-place
of the young hawks that rested in its windy stillness, looking down upon
the shifting castle life in the courts below.

Behind the north stable, a great, long, rambling building, thick-walled,
and black with age, lay an older part of the castle than that peopled
by the better class of life--a cluster of great thick walls, rudely but
strongly built, now the dwelling-place of stable-lads and hinds, swine
and poultry. From one part of these ancient walls, and fronting an inner
court of the castle, arose a tall, circular, heavy-buttressed tower,
considerably higher than the other buildings, and so mantled with a
dense growth of aged ivy as to stand a shaft of solid green. Above its
crumbling crown circled hundreds of pigeons, white and pied, clapping
and clattering in noisy flight through the sunny air. Several windows,
some closed with shutters, peeped here and there from out the leaves,
and near the top of the pile was a row of arched openings, as though of
a balcony or an airy gallery.

Myles had more than once felt an idle curiosity about this tower, and
one day, as he and Gascoyne sat together, he pointed his finger and
said, "What is yon place?"

"That," answered Gascoyne, looking over his shoulder--"that they call
Brutus Tower, for why they do say that Brutus he built it when he came
hither to Britain. I believe not the tale mine own self; ne'theless, it
is marvellous ancient, and old Robin-the-Fletcher telleth me that there
be stairways built in the wall and passage-ways, and a maze wherein
a body may get lost, an he know not the way aright, and never see the
blessed light of day again."

"Marry," said Myles, "those same be strange sayings. Who liveth there
now?"

"No one liveth there," said Gascoyne, "saving only some of the stable
villains, and that half-witted goose-herd who flung stones at us
yesterday when we mocked him down in the paddock. He and his wife and
those others dwell in the vaults beneath, like rabbits in any warren. No
one else hath lived there since Earl Robert's day, which belike was
an hundred years agone. The story goeth that Earl Robert's brother--or
step-brother--was murdered there, and some men say by the Earl himself.
Sin that day it hath been tight shut."

Myles stared at the tower for a while in silence. "It is a
strange-seeming place from without," said he, at last, "and mayhap it
may be even more strange inside. Hast ever been within, Francis?"

"Nay," said Gascoyne; "said I not it hath been fast locked since Earl
Robert's day?"

"By'r Lady," said Myles, "an I had lived here in this place so long as
thou, I wot I would have been within it ere this."

"Beshrew me," said Gascoyne, "but I have never thought of such a
matter." He turned and looked at the tall crown rising into the warm
sunlight with a new interest, for the thought of entering it smacked
pleasantly of adventure. "How wouldst thou set about getting within?"
said he, presently.

"Why, look," said Myles; "seest thou not yon hole in the ivy branches?
Methinks there is a window at that place. An I mistake not, it is in
reach of the stable eaves. A body might come up by the fagot pile to the
roof of the hen-house, and then by the long stable to the north stable,
and so to that hole."

Gascoyne looked thoughtfully at the Brutus Tower, and then suddenly
inquired, "Wouldst go there?"

"Aye," said Myles, briefly.

"So be it. Lead thou the way in the venture, I will follow after thee,"
said Gascoyne.

As Myles had said, the climbing from roof to roof was a matter easy
enough to an active pair of lads like themselves; but when, by-and-by,
they reached the wall of the tower itself, they found the hidden window
much higher from the roof than they had judged from below--perhaps ten
or twelve feet--and it was, besides, beyond the eaves and out of their
reach.

Myles looked up and looked down. Above was the bushy thickness of the
ivy, the branches as thick as a woman's wrist, knotted and intertwined;
below was the stone pavement of a narrow inner court between two of the
stable buildings.

"Methinks I can climb to yon place," said he.

"Thou'lt break thy neck an thou tryest," said Gascoyne, hastily.

"Nay," quoth Myles, "I trust not; but break or make, we get not there
without trying. So here goeth for the venture."

"Thou art a hare-brained knave as ever drew breath of life," quoth
Gascoyne, "and will cause me to come to grief some of these fine days.
Ne'theless, an thou be Jack Fool and lead the way, go, and I will be Tom
Fool and follow anon. If thy neck is worth so little, mine is worth no
more."

It was indeed a perilous climb, but that special providence which guards
reckless lads befriended them, as it has thousands of their kind before
and since. So, by climbing from one knotted, clinging stem to another,
they were presently seated snugly in the ivied niche in the window. It
was barred from within by a crumbling shutter, the rusty fastening of
which, after some little effort upon the part of the two, gave way, and
entering the narrow opening, they found themselves in a small triangular
passage-way, from which a steep flight of stone steps led down through a
hollow in the massive wall to the room below.

At the bottom of the steps was a heavy oaken door, which stood ajar,
hanging upon a single rusty hinge, and from the room within a dull, gray
light glimmered faintly. Myles pushed the door farther open; it creaked
and grated horribly on its rusty hinge, and, as in instant answer to
the discordant shriek, came a faint piping squeaking, a rustling and a
pattering of soft footsteps.

"The ghosts!" cried Gascoyne, in a quavering whisper, and for a moment
Myles felt the chill of goose-flesh creep up and down his spine. But the
next moment he laughed.

"Nay," said he, "they be rats. Look at yon fellow, Francis! Be'st as big
as Mother Joan's kitten. Give me that stone." He flung it at the rat,
and it flew clattering across the floor. There was another pattering
rustle of hundreds of feet, and then a breathless silence.

The boys stood looking around them, and a strange enough sight it was.
The room was a perfect circle of about twenty feet across, and was
piled high with an indistinguishable mass of lumber--rude tables, ruder
chairs, ancient chests, bits and remnants of cloth and sacking and
leather, old helmets and pieces of armor of a by-gone time, broken
spears and pole-axes, pots and pans and kitchen furniture of all sorts
and kinds.

A straight beam of sunlight fell through a broken shutter like a bar of
gold, and fell upon the floor in a long streak of dazzling light that
illuminated the whole room with a yellow glow.

"By 'r Lady!" said Gascoyne at last, in a hushed voice, "here is Father
Time's garret for sure. Didst ever see the like, Myles? Look at yon
arbalist; sure Brutus himself used such an one!"

"Nay," said Myles; "but look at this saddle. Marry, here be'st a rat's
nest in it."

Clouds of dust rose as they rummaged among the mouldering mass, setting
them coughing and sneezing. Now and then a great gray rat would shoot
out beneath their very feet, and disappear, like a sudden shadow, into
some hole or cranny in the wall.

"Come," said Myles at last, brushing the dust from his jacket, "an we
tarry here longer we will have chance to see no other sights; the sun is
falling low."

An arched stair-way upon the opposite side of the room from which they
had entered wound upward through the wall, the stone steps being lighted
by narrow slits of windows cut through the massive masonry. Above the
room they had just left was another of the same shape and size, but with
an oak floor, sagging and rising into hollows and hills, where the joist
had rotted away beneath. It was bare and empty, and not even a rat
was to be seen. Above was another room; above that, another; all the
passages and stairways which connected the one story with the other
being built in the wall, which was, where solid, perhaps fifteen feet
thick.

From the third floor a straight flight of steps led upward to a closed
door, from the other side of which shone the dazzling brightness of
sunlight, and whence came a strange noise--a soft rustling, a melodious
murmur. The boys put their shoulders against the door, which was
fastened, and pushed with might and main--once, twice; suddenly the
lock gave way, and out they pitched headlong into a blaze of sunlight.
A deafening clapping and uproar sounded in their ears, and scores of
pigeons, suddenly disturbed, rose in stormy flight.

They sat up and looked around them in silent wonder. They were in a
bower of leafy green. It was the top story of the tower, the roof of
which had crumbled and toppled in, leaving it open to the sky, with only
here and there a slanting beam or two supporting a portion of the tiled
roof, affording shelter for the nests of the pigeons crowded closely
together. Over everything the ivy had grown in a mantling sheet--a
net-work of shimmering green, through which the sunlight fell
flickering.

"This passeth wonder," said Gascoyne, at last breaking the silence.

"Aye," said Myles, "I did never see the like in all my life." Then,
"Look, yonder is a room beyond; let us see what it is, Francis."

Entering an arched door-way, the two found themselves in a beautiful
little vaulted chapel, about eighteen feet long and twelve or fifteen
wide. It comprised the crown of one of the large massive buttresses, and
from it opened the row of arched windows which could be seen from below
through the green shimmering of the ivy leaves. The boys pushed aside
the trailing tendrils and looked out and down. The whole castle lay
spread below them, with the busy people unconsciously intent upon the
matters of their daily work. They could see the gardener, with bowed
back, patiently working among the flowers in the garden, the stable-boys
below grooming the horses, a bevy of ladies in the privy garden playing
at shuttlecock with battledoors of wood, a group of gentlemen walking
up and down in front of the Earl's house. They could see the household
servants hurrying hither and thither, two little scullions at
fisticuffs, and a kitchen girl standing in the door-way scratching her
frowzy head.

It was all like a puppetshow of real life, each acting unconsciously a
part in the play. The cool wind came in through the rustling leaves and
fanned their cheeks, hot with the climb up the winding stair-way.

"We will call it our Eyry," said Gascoyne "and we will be the hawks that
live here." And that was how it got its name.

The next day Myles had the armorer make him a score of large spikes,
which he and Gascoyne drove between the ivy branches and into the cement
of the wall, and so made a safe passageway by which to reach the window
niche in the wall.