After the first excitement of meeting, discussing, and deciding had
passed, Myles began to feel the weight of the load he had so boldly
taken upon himself. He began to reckon what a serious thing it was for
him to stand as a single champion against the tyranny that had grown
so strong through years of custom. Had he let himself do so, he might
almost have repented, but it was too late now for repentance. He had
laid his hand to the plough, and he must drive the furrow.

Somehow the news of impending battle had leaked out among the rest of
the body of squires, and a buzz of suppressed excitement hummed through
the dormitory that evening. The bachelors, to whom, no doubt, vague
rumors had been blown, looked lowering, and talked together in low
voices, standing apart in a group. Some of them made a rather marked
show of secreting knives in the straw of their beds, and no doubt it had
its effect upon more than one young heart that secretly thrilled at the
sight of the shining blades. However, all was undisturbed that evening.
The lights were put out, and the lads retired with more than usual
quietness, only for the murmur of whispering.

All night Myles's sleep was more or less disturbed by dreams in which he
was now conquering, now being conquered, and before the day had fairly
broken he was awake. He lay upon his cot, keying himself up for the
encounter which he had set upon himself to face, and it would not be
the truth to say that the sight of those knives hidden in the straw
the night before had made no impression upon him. By-and-by he knew the
others were beginning to awake, for he heard them softly stirring, and
as the light grew broad and strong, saw them arise, one by one, and
begin dressing in the gray morning. Then he himself arose and put on his
doublet and hose, strapping his belt tightly about his waist; then he
sat down on the side of his cot.

Presently that happened for which he was waiting; two of the younger
squires started to bring the bachelors' morning supply of water. As they
crossed the room Myles called to them in a loud voice--a little uneven,
perhaps: "Stop! We draw no more water for any one in this house, saving
only for ourselves. Set ye down those buckets, and go back to your
places!"

The two lads stopped, half turned, and then stood still, holding the
three buckets undecidedly.

In a moment all was uproar and confusion, for by this time every one
of the lads had arisen, some sitting on the edge of their beds, some
nearly, others quite dressed. A half-dozen of the Knights of the Rose
came over to where Myles stood, gathering in a body behind him and the
others followed, one after another.

The bachelors were hardly prepared for such prompt and vigorous action.

"What is to do?" cried one of them, who stood near the two lads with the
buckets. "Why fetch ye not the water?"

"Falworth says we shall not fetch it," answered one of the lads, a boy
by the name of Gosse.

"What mean ye by that, Falworth?" the young man called to Myles.

Myles's heart was beating thickly and heavily within him, but
nevertheless he spoke up boldly enough. "I mean," said he, "that from
henceforth ye shall fetch and carry for yourselves."

"Look'ee, Blunt," called the bachelor; "here is Falworth says they
squires will fetch no more water for us."

The head bachelor had heard all that had passed, and was even then
hastily slipping on his doublet and hose. "Now, then, Falworth," said he
at last, striding forward, "what is to do? Ye will fetch no more water,
eh? By 'r Lady, I will know the reason why."

He was still advancing towards Myles, with two or three of the older
bachelors at his heels, when Gascoyne spoke.

"Thou hadst best stand back, Blunt," said he, "else thou mayst be hurt.
We will not have ye bang Falworth again as ye once did, so stand thou
back!"

Blunt stopped short and looked upon the lads standing behind Myles, some
of them with faces a trifle pale perhaps, but all grim and determined
looking enough. Then he turned upon his heel suddenly, and walked back
to the far end of the dormitory, where the bachelors were presently
clustered together. A few words passed between them, and then the
thirteen began at once arming themselves, some with wooden clogs,
and some with the knives which they had so openly concealed the
night before. At the sign of imminent battle, all those not actively
interested scuttled away to right and left, climbing up on the benches
and cots, and leaving a free field to the combatants. The next moment
would have brought bloodshed.

Now Myles, thanks to the training of the Crosbey-Dale smith, felt
tolerably sure that in a wrestling bout he was a match--perhaps more
than a match--for any one of the body of squires, and he had determined,
if possible, to bring the battle to a single-handed encounter upon that
footing. Accordingly he suddenly stepped forward before the others.

"Look'ee, fellow," he called to Blunt, "thou art he who struck me whilst
I was down some while since. Wilt thou let this quarrel stand between
thee and me, and meet me man to man without weapon? See, I throw me
down mine own, and will meet thee with bare hands." And as he spoke, he
tossed the clog he held in his hand back upon the cot.

"So be it," said Blunt, with great readiness, tossing down a similar
weapon which he himself held.

"Do not go, Myles," cried Gascoyne, "he is a villain and a traitor, and
would betray thee to thy death. I saw him when he first gat from bed
hide a knife in his doublet."

"Thou liest!" said Blunt. "I swear, by my faith, I be barehanded as ye
see me! Thy friend accuses me, Myles Falworth, because he knoweth thou
art afraid of me."

"There thou liest most vilely!" exclaimed Myles. "Swear that thou hast
no knife, and I will meet thee."

"Hast thou not heard me say that I have no knife?" said Blunt. "What
more wouldst thou have?"

"Then I will meet thee halfway," said Myles.

Gascoyne caught him by the sleeve, and would have withheld him, assuring
him that he had seen the bachelor conceal a knife. But Myles, hot for
the fight, broke away from his friend without listening to him.

As the two advanced steadily towards one another a breathless silence
fell upon the dormitory in sharp contrast to the uproar and confusion
that had filled it a moment before. The lads, standing some upon
benches, some upon beds, all watched with breathless interest the
meeting of the two champions.

As they approached one another they stopped and stood for a moment a
little apart, glaring the one upon the other. They seemed ill enough
matched; Blunt was fully half a head taller than Myles, and was
thick-set and close-knit in young manhood. Nothing but Myles's undaunted
pluck could have led him to dare to face an enemy so much older and
stouter than himself.

The pause was only for a moment. They who looked saw Blunt slide his
hand furtively towards his bosom. Myles saw too, and in the flash of an
instant knew what the gesture meant, and sprang upon the other before
the hand could grasp what it sought. As he clutched his enemy he felt
what he had in that instant expected to feel--the handle of a dagger.
The next moment he cried, in a loud voice: "Oh, thou villain! Help,
Gascoyne! He hath a knife under his doublet!"

In answer to his cry for help, Myles's friends started to his aid. But
the bachelors shouted, "Stand back and let them fight it out alone, else
we will knife ye too." And as they spoke, some of them leaped from the
benches whereon they stood, drawing their knives and flourishing them.

For just a few seconds Myles's friends stood cowed, and in those few
seconds the fight came to an end with a suddenness unexpected to all.

A struggle fierce and silent followed between the two; Blunt striving
to draw his knife, and Myles, with the energy of despair, holding him
tightly by the wrist. It was in vain the elder lad writhed and twisted;
he was strong enough to overbear Myles, but still was not able to clutch
the haft of his knife.

"Thou shalt not draw it!" gasped Myles at last. "Thou shalt not stab
me!"

Then again some of his friends started forward to his aid, but they were
not needed, for before they came, the fight was over.

Blunt, finding that he was not able to draw the weapon, suddenly ceased
his endeavors, and flung his arms around Myles, trying to bear him down
upon the ground, and in that moment his battle was lost.

In an instant--so quick, so sudden, so unexpected that no one could see
how it happened--his feet were whirled away from under him, he spun with
flying arms across Myles's loins, and pitched with a thud upon the stone
pavement, where he lay still, motionless, while Myles, his face white
with passion and his eyes gleaming, stood glaring around like a young
wild-boar beset by the dogs.

The next moment the silence was broken, and the uproar broke forth
with redoubled violence. The bachelors, leaping from the benches, came
hurrying forward on one side, and Myles's friends from the other.

"Thou shalt smart for this, Falworth," said one of the older lads.
"Belike thou hast slain him!"

Myles turned upon the speaker like a flash, and with such a passion of
fury in his face that the other, a fellow nearly a head taller than he,
shrank back, cowed in spite of himself. Then Gascoyne came and laid his
hand on his friend's shoulder.

"Who touches me?" cried Myles, hoarsely, turning sharply upon him; and
then, seeing who it was, "Oh, Francis, they would ha' killed me!"

"Come away, Myles," said Gascoyne; "thou knowest not what thou doest;
thou art mad; come away. What if thou hadst killed him?"

The words called Myles somewhat to himself. "I care not!" said he, but
sullenly and not passionately, and then he suffered Gascoyne and Wilkes
to lead him away.

Meantime Blunt's friends had turned him over, and, after feeling his
temples, his wrist, and his heart, bore him away to a bench at the far
end of the room. There they fell to chafing his hands and sprinkling
water in his face, a crowd of the others gathering about. Blunt was
hidden from Myles by those who stood around, and the lad listened to the
broken talk that filled the room with its confusion, his anxiety growing
keener as he became cooler. But at last, with a heartfelt joy, he
gathered from the confused buzz of words that the other lad had opened
his eyes and, after a while, he saw him sit up, leaning his head upon
the shoulder of one of his fellow-bachelors, white and faint and sick as
death.

"Thank Heaven that thou didst not kill him!" said Edmund Wilkes, who
had been standing with the crowd looking on at the efforts of Blunt's
friends to revive him, and who had now come and sat down upon the bed
not far from Myles.

"Aye," said Myles, gruffly, "I do thank Heaven for that."