So for a little while Myles was disposed to congratulate himself upon
having come off so well from his adventure with the Earl. But after a
day or two had passed, and he had time for second thought, he began to
misdoubt whether, after all, he might not have carried it with a better
air if he had shown more chivalrous boldness in the presence of his true
lady; whether it would not have redounded more to his credit if he had
in some way asserted his rights as the young dame's knight-errant and
defender. Was it not ignominious to resign his rights and privileges so
easily and tamely at a signal from the Earl?

"For, in sooth," said he to Gascoyne, as the two talked the matter over,
"she hath, in a certain way, accepted me for her knight, and yet I stood
me there without saying so much as one single word in her behalf."

"Nay," said Gascoyne, "I would not trouble me on that score. Methinks
that thou didst come off wondrous well out of the business. I would not
have thought it possible that my Lord could ha' been so patient with
thee as he showed himself. Methinks, forsooth, he must hold thee privily
in right high esteem."

"Truly," said Myles, after a little pause of meditative silence, "I know
not of any esteem, yet I do think he was passing patient with me in this
matter. But ne'theless, Francis, that changeth not my stand in the case.
Yea, I did shamefully, so to resign my lady without speaking one word;
nor will I so resign her even yet. I have bethought me much of this
matter of late, Francis, and now I come to thee to help me from my evil
case. I would have thee act the part of a true friend to me--like that
one I have told thee of in the story of the Emperor Justinian. I would
have thee, when next thou servest in the house, to so contrive that my
Lady Alice shall get a letter which I shall presently write, and wherein
I may set all that is crooked straight again."

"Heaven forbid," said Gascoyne, hastily, "that I should be such a fool
as to burn my fingers in drawing thy nuts from the fire! Deliver thy
letter thyself, good fellow!"

So spoke Gascoyne, yet after all he ended, as he usually did, by
yielding to Myles's superior will and persistence. So the letter was
written and one day the good-natured Gascoyne carried it with him to the
house, and the opportunity offering, gave it to one of the young ladies
attendant upon the Countess's family--a lass with whom he had friendly
intimacy--to be delivered to Lady Alice.

But if Myles congratulated himself upon the success of this new
adventure, it was not for long. That night, as the crowd of pages and
squires were making themselves ready for bed, the call came through the
uproar for "Myles Falworth! Myles Falworth!"

"Here I be," cried Myles, standing up on his cot. "Who calleth me?"

It was the groom of the Earl's bedchamber, and seeing Myles standing
thus raised above the others, he came walking down the length of the
room towards him, the wonted hubbub gradually silencing as he advanced
and the youngsters turning, staring, and wondering.

"My Lord would speak with thee, Myles Falworth," said the groom, when he
had come close enough to where Myles stood. "Busk thee and make ready;
he is at livery even now."

The groom's words fell upon Myles like a blow. He stood for a while
staring wide-eyed. "My Lord speak with me, sayst thou!" he ejaculated at
last.

"Aye," said the other, impatiently; "get thee ready quickly. I must
return anon."

Myles's head was in a whirl as he hastily changed his clothes for a
better suit, Gascoyne helping him. What could the Earl want with him at
this hour? He knew in his heart what it was; the interview could concern
nothing but the letter that he had sent to Lady Alice that day. As he
followed the groom through the now dark and silent courts, and across
the corner of the great quadrangle, and so to the Earl's house, he tried
to brace his failing courage to meet the coming interview. Nevertheless,
his heart beat tumultuously as he followed the other down the long
corridor, lit only by a flaring link set in a wrought-iron bracket. Then
his conductor lifted the arras at the door of the bedchamber, whence
came the murmuring sound of many voices, and holding it aside, beckoned
him to enter, and Myles passed within. At the first, he was conscious
of nothing but a crowd of people, and of the brightness of many lighted
candles; then he saw that he stood in a great airy room spread with a
woven mat of rushes. On three sides the walls were hung with tapestry
representing hunting and battle scenes, at the farther end, where the
bed stood, the stone wall of the fourth side was covered with cloth of
blue, embroidered with silver goshawks. Even now, in the ripe springtime
of May, the room was still chilly, and a great fire roared and crackled
in the huge gaping mouth of the stone fireplace. Not far from the blaze
were clustered the greater part of those present, buzzing in talk, now
and then swelled by murmuring laughter. Some of those who knew Myles
nodded to him, and two or three spoke to him as he stood waiting, whilst
the groom went forward to speak to the Earl; though what they said and
what he answered, Myles, in his bewilderment and trepidation, hardly
knew.

As was said before, the livery was the last meal of the day, and was
taken in bed. It was a simple repast--a manchette, or small loaf of
bread of pure white flour, a loaf of household bread, sometimes a lump
of cheese, and either a great flagon of ale or of sweet wine, warm
and spiced. The Earl was sitting upright in bed, dressed in a furred
dressing-gown, and propped up by two cylindrical bolsters of crimson
satin. Upon the coverlet, and spread over his knees, was a large wide
napkin of linen fringed with silver thread, and on it rested a silver
tray containing the bread and some cheese. Two pages and three gentlemen
were waiting upon him, and Mad Noll, the jester, stood at the head of
the bed, now and then jingling his bawble and passing some quaint jest
upon the chance of making his master smile. Upon a table near by were
some dozen or so waxen tapers struck upon as many spiked candlesticks
of silver-gilt, and illuminating that end of the room with their bright
twinkling flames. One of the gentlemen was in the act of serving the
Earl with a goblet of wine, poured from a silver ewer by one of the
squires, as the groom of the chamber came forward and spoke. The Earl,
taking the goblet, turned his head, and as Myles looked, their eyes met.
Then the Earl turned away again and raised the cup to his lips, while
Myles felt his heart beat more rapidly than ever.

But at last the meal was ended, and the Earl washed his hands and his
mouth and his beard from a silver basin of scented water held by another
one of the squires. Then, leaning back against the pillows, he beckoned
to Myles.

In answer Myles walked forward the length of the room, conscious that
all eyes were fixed upon him. The Earl said something, and those who
stood near drew back as he came forward. Then Myles found himself
standing beside the bed, looking down upon the quilted counterpane,
feeling that the other was gazing fixedly at him.

"I sent for thee," said the Earl at last, still looking steadily at
him, "because this afternoon came a letter to my hand which thou hadst
written to my niece, the Lady Alice. I have it here," said he, thrusting
his hand under the bolster, "and have just now finished reading it."
Then, after a moment's pause, whilst he opened the parchment and scanned
it again, "I find no matter of harm in it, but hereafter write no more
such." He spoke entirely without anger, and Myles looked up in wonder.
"Here, take it," said the Earl, folding the letter and tossing it to
Myles, who instinctively caught it, "and henceforth trouble thou my
niece no more either by letter or any other way. I thought haply thou
wouldst be at some such saucy trick, and I made Alice promise to let me
know when it happed. Now, I say, let this be an end of the matter. Dost
thou not know thou mayst injure her by such witless folly as that of
meeting her privily, and privily writing to her?"

"I meant no harm," said Myles.

"I believe thee," said the Earl. "That will do now; thou mayst go."

Myles hesitated.

"What wouldst thou say?" said Lord Mackworth.

"Only this," said Myles, "an I have thy leave so to do, that the Lady
Alice hath chosen me to be her knight, and so, whether I may see her or
speak with her or no, the laws of chivalry give me, who am gentle born,
the right to serve her as a true knight may."

"As a true fool may," said the Earl, dryly. "Why, how now, thou art not
a knight yet, nor anything but a raw lump of a boy. What rights do the
laws of chivalry give thee, sirrah? Thou art a fool!"

Had the Earl been ever so angry, his words would have been less bitter
to Myles than his cool, unmoved patience; it mortified his pride and
galled it to the quick.

"I know that thou dost hold me in contempt," he mumbled.

"Out upon thee!" said the Earl, testily. "Thou dost tease me beyond
patience. I hold thee in contempt, forsooth! Why, look thee, hadst thou
been other than thou art, I would have had thee whipped out of my house
long since. Thinkest thou I would have borne so patiently with another
one of ye squires had such an one held secret meeting with my daughter
and niece, and tampered, as thou hast done, with my household, sending
through one of my people that letter? Go to; thou art a fool, Myles
Falworth!"

Myles stood staring at the Earl without making an effort to speak. The
words that he had heard suddenly flashed, as it were, a new light into
his mind. In that flash he fully recognized, and for the first time,
the strange and wonderful forbearance the great Earl had shown to him,
a poor obscure boy. What did it mean? Was Lord Mackworth his secret
friend, after all, as Gascoyne had more than once asserted? So Myles
stood silent, thinking many things.

Meantime the other lay back upon the cylindrical bolsters, looking
thoughtfully at him. "How old art thou?" said he at last.

"Seventeen last April," answered Myles.

"Then thou art old enough to have some of the thoughts of a man, and to
lay aside those of a boy. Haply thou hast had foolish things in thy
head this short time past; it is time that thou put them away. Harkee,
sirrah! the Lady Alice is a great heiress in her own right, and mayst
command the best alliance in England--an Earl--a Duke. She groweth apace
to a woman, and then her kind lieth in Courts and great houses. As for
thee, thou art but a poor lad, penniless and without friends to aid thee
to open advancement. Thy father is attainted, and one whisper of where
he lieth hid would bring him thence to the Tower, and haply to the
block. Besides that, he hath an enemy, as Sir James Lee hath already
told thee--an enemy perhaps more great and powerful than myself. That
enemy watcheth for thy father and for thee; shouldst thou dare raise thy
head or thy fortune ever so little, he would haply crop them both, and
that parlously quick. Myles Falworth, how dost thou dare to lift thine
eyes to the Lady Alice de Mowbray?"

Poor Myles stood silent and motionless. "Sir," said he at last, in a
dry choking voice, "thou art right, and I have been a fool. Sir, I will
never raise mine eyes to look upon the Lady Alice more."

"I say not that either, boy," said the Earl; "but ere thou dost so dare,
thou must first place thyself and thy family whence ye fell. Till then,
as thou art an honest man, trouble her not. Now get thee gone."

As Myles crossed the dark and silent courtyards, and looked up at the
clear, still twinkle of the stars, he felt a kind of dull wonder that
they and the night and the world should seem so much the same, and he be
so different.

The first stroke had been given that was to break in pieces his boyhood
life--the second was soon to follow.