That same afternoon the squires' quarters were thrown into such a
ferment of excitement as had, perhaps, never before stirred them. About
one o'clock in the afternoon the Earl himself and Lord George came
walking slowly across the Armory Court wrapped in deep conversation, and
entered Sir James Lee's office.

All the usual hubbub of noise that surrounded the neighborhood of the
dormitory and the armory was stilled at their coming, and when the two
noblemen had entered Sir James's office, the lads and young men gathered
in knots discussing with an almost awesome interest what that visit
might portend.

After some time Sir James Lee came to the door at the head of the long
flight of stone steps, and whistling, beckoned one of the smaller pages
to him. He gave a short order that sent the little fellow flying on some
mission. In the course of a few minutes he returned, hurrying across
the stony court with Myles Falworth, who presently entered Sir James's
office. It was then and at this sight that the intense half-suppressed
excitement reached its height of fever-heat. What did it all mean? The
air was filled with a thousand vague, wild rumors--but the very wildest
surmises fell short of the real truth.

Perhaps Myles was somewhat pale when he entered the office; certainly
his nerves were in a tremor, for his heart told him that something very
portentous was about to befall him. The Earl sat at the table, and in
the seat that Sir James Lee usually occupied; Lord George half sat, half
leaned in the window-place. Sir James stood with his back to the
empty fireplace, and his hands clasped behind him. All three were very
serious.

"Give thee good den, Myles Falworth," said the Earl, as Myles bowed
first to him and then to the others; "and I would have thee prepare
thyself for a great happening." Then, continuing directly to the point:
"Thou knowest, sirrah, why we have been training thee so closely these
three years gone; it is that thou shouldst be able to hold thine own
in the world. Nay, not only hold thine own, but to show thyself to be
a knight of prowess shouldst it come to a battle between thee and thy
father's enemy; for there lieth no half-way place for thee, and thou
must be either great or else nothing. Well, sir, the time hath now come
for thee to show thy mettle. I would rather have chosen that thou hadst
labored a twelvemonth longer; but now, as I said, hath come a chance to
prove thyself that may never come again. Sir James tells me that thou
art passably ripe in skill. Thou must now show whether that be so or no.
Hast thou ever heard of the Sieur de la Montaigne?"

"Yea, my Lord. I have heard of him often," answered Myles. "It was he
who won the prize at the great tourney at Rochelle last year."

"I see that thou hast his fame pat to thy tongue's end," said the Earl;
"he is the chevalier of whom I speak, and he is reckoned the best knight
of Dauphiny. That one of which thou spokest was the third great tourney
in which he was adjudged the victor. I am glad that thou holdest his
prowess highly. Knowest thou that he is in the train of the Comte de
Vermoise?"

"Nay," said Myles, flushing; "I did hear news he was in England, but
knew not that he was in this place."

"Yea," said Lord Mackworth; "he is here." He paused for a moment; then
said, suddenly. "Tell me, Myles Falworth, an thou wert a knight and of
rank fit to run a joust with the Sieur de la Montaigne, wouldst thou
dare encounter him in the lists?"

The Earl's question fell upon Myles so suddenly and unexpectedly that
for a moment or so he stood staring at the speaker with mouth agape.
Meanwhile the Earl sat looking calmly back at him, slowly stroking his
beard the while.

It was Sir James Lee's voice that broke the silence. "Thou heardst thy
Lord speak," said he, harshly. "Hast thou no tongue to answer, sirrah?"

"Be silent, Lee," said Lord Mackworth, quietly. "Let the lad have time
to think before he speaketh."

The sound of the words aroused Myles. He advanced to the table, and
rested his hand upon it. "My Lord--my Lord," said he, "I know not what
to say, I--I am amazed and afeard."

"How! how!" cried Sir James Lee, harshly. "Afeard, sayst thou? An thou
art afeard, thou knave, thou needst never look upon my face or speak to
me more! I have done with thee forever an thou art afeard even were the
champion a Sir Alisander."

"Peace, peace, Lee," said the Earl, holding up his hand. "Thou art too
hasty. The lad shall have his will in this matter, and thou and no one
shall constrain him. Methinks, also, thou dost not understand him. Speak
from thy heart, Myles; why art thou afraid?"

"Because," said Myles, "I am so young, sir; I am but a raw boy. How
should I dare be so hardy as to venture to set lance against such an one
as the Sieur de la Montaigne? What would I be but a laughing-stock for
all the world who would see me so foolish as to venture me against one
of such prowess and skill?"

"Nay, Myles," said Lord George, "thou thinkest not well enough of thine
own skill and prowess. Thinkest thou we would undertake to set thee
against him, an we did not think that thou couldst hold thine own fairly
well?"

"Hold mine own?" cried Myles, turning to Lord George. "Sir; thou dost
not mean--thou canst not mean, that I may hope or dream to hold mine own
against the Sieur de la Montaigne."

"Aye," said Lord George, "that was what I did mean."

"Come, Myles," said the Earl; "now tell me: wilt thou fight the Sieur de
la Montaigne?"

"Yea," said Myles, drawing himself to his full height and throwing out
his chest. "Yea," and his cheeks and forehead flushed red; "an thou bid
me do so, I will fight him."

"There spake my brave lad!" cried Lord George heartily.

"I give thee joy, Myles," said the Earl, reaching him his hand, which
Myles took and kissed. "And I give thee double joy. I have talked with
the King concerning thee this morning, and he hath consented to knight
thee--yea, to knight thee with all honors of the Bath--provided thou
wilt match thee against the Sieur de la Montaigne for the honor of
England and Mackworth. Just now the King lieth to sleep for a little
while after his dinner; have thyself in readiness when he cometh forth,
and I will have thee presented."

Then the Earl turned to Sir James Lee, and questioned him as to how the
bachelors were fitted with clothes. Myles listened, only half hearing
the words through the tumbling of his thoughts. He had dreamed in his
day-dreams that some time he might be knighted, but that time always
seemed very, very distant. To be knighted now, in his boyhood, by the
King, with the honors of the Bath, and under the patronage of the
Earl of Mackworth; to joust--to actually joust--with the Sieur de la
Montaigne, one of the most famous chevaliers of France! No wonder he
only half heard the words; half heard the Earl's questions concerning
his clothes and the discussion which followed; half heard Lord George
volunteer to array him in fitting garments from his own wardrobe.

"Thou mayst go now," said the Earl, at last turning to him. "But be thou
at George's apartments by two of the clock to be dressed fittingly for
the occasion."

Then Myles went out stupefied, dazed, bewildered. He looked around,
but he did not see Gascoyne. He said not a word to any of the others in
answer to the eager questions poured upon him by his fellow-squires,
but walked straight away. He hardly knew where he went, but by-and-by
he found himself in a grassy angle below the end of the south stable; a
spot overlooking the outer wall and the river beyond. He looked around;
no one was near, and he flung himself at length, burying his face in
his arms. How long he lay there he did not know, but suddenly some
one touched him upon the shoulder, and he sprang up quickly. It was
Gascoyne.

"What is to do, Myles?" said his friend, anxiously. "What is all this
talk I hear concerning thee up yonder at the armory?"

"Oh, Francis!" cried Myles, with a husky choking voice: "I am to be
knighted--by the King--by the King himself; and I--I am to fight the
Sieur de la Montaigne."

He reached out his hand, and Gascoyne took it. They stood for a while
quite silent, and when at last the stillness was broken, it was Gascoyne
who spoke, in a choking voice.

"Thou art going to be great, Myles," said he. "I always knew that it
must be so with thee, and now the time hath come. Yea, thou wilt be
great, and live at court amongst noble folk, and Kings haply. Presently
thou wilt not be with me any more, and wilt forget me by-and-by."

"Nay, Francis, never will I forget thee!" answered Myles, pressing
his friend's hand. "I will always love thee better than any one in the
world, saving only my father and my mother."

Gascoyne shook his head and looked away, swallowing at the dry lump in
his throat. Suddenly he turned to Myles. "Wilt thou grant me a boon?"

"Yea," answered Myles. "What is it?"

"That thou wilt choose me for thy squire."

"Nay," said Myles; "how canst thou think to serve me as squire? Thou
wilt be a knight thyself some day, Francis, and why dost thou wish now
to be my squire?"

"Because," said Gascoyne, with a short laugh, "I would rather be in thy
company as a squire than in mine own as a knight, even if I might be
banneret."

Myles flung his arm around his friend's neck, and kissed him upon the
cheek. "Thou shalt have thy will," said he; "but whether knight or
squire, thou art ever mine own true friend."

Then they went slowly back together, hand in hand, to the castle world
again.

At two o'clock Myles went to Lord George's apartments, and there his
friend and patron dressed him out in a costume better fitted for the
ceremony of presentation--a fur-trimmed jacket of green brocaded velvet
embroidered with golden thread, a black velvet hood-cap rolled like a
turban and with a jewel in the front, a pair of crimson hose, and a pair
of black velvet shoes trimmed and stitched with gold-thread. Myles had
never worn such splendid clothes in his life before, and he could not
but feel that they became him well.

"Sir," said he, as he looked down at himself, "sure it is not lawful for
me to wear such clothes as these."

In those days there was a law, known as a sumptuary law, which regulated
by statute the clothes that each class of people were privileged to
wear. It was, as Myles said, against the law for him to wear such
garments as those in which he was clad--either velvet, crimson stuff,
fur or silver or gold embroidery--nevertheless such a solemn ceremony as
presentation to the King excused the temporary overstepping of the law,
and so Lord George told him. As he laid his hand upon the lad's shoulder
and held him off at arm's-length, he added, "And I pledge thee my word,
Myles, that thou art as lusty and handsome a lad as ever mine eyes
beheld."

"Thou art very kind to me, sir," said Myles, in answer.

Lord George laughed; and then giving him a shake, let go his shoulder.

It was about three o'clock when little Edmond de Montefort, Lord
Mackworth's favorite page, came with word that the King was then walking
in the Earl's pleasance.

"Come, Myles," said Lord George, and then Myles arose from the
seat where he had been sitting, his heart palpitating and throbbing
tumultuously.

At the wicket-gate of the pleasance two gentlemen-at-arms stood guard in
half-armor; they saluted Lord George, and permitted him to pass with his
protege. As he laid his hand upon the latch of the wicket he paused for
a moment and turned.

"Myles," said he, in a low voice, "thou art a thoughtful and cautious
lad; for thy father's sake be thoughtful and cautious now. Do not
speak his name or betray that thou art his son." Then he opened the
wicket-gate and entered.

Any lad of Myles's age, even one far more used to the world than he,
would perhaps have felt all the oppression that he experienced under the
weight of such a presentation. He hardly knew what he was doing as
Lord George led him to where the King stood, a little apart from
the attendants, with the Earl and the Comte de Vermoise. Even in his
confusion he knew enough to kneel, and somehow his honest, modest
diffidence became the young fellow very well. He was not awkward, for
one so healthful in mind and body as he could not bear himself very ill,
and he felt the assurance that in Lord George he had a kind friend at
his side, and one well used to court ceremonies to lend him countenance.
Then there is something always pleasing in frank, modest manliness such
as was stamped on Myles's handsome, sturdy face. No doubt the King's
heart warmed towards the fledgling warrior kneeling in the pathway
before him. He smiled very kindly as he gave the lad his hand to kiss,
and that ceremony done, held fast to the hard, brown, sinewy fist of the
young man with his soft white hand, and raised him to his feet.

"By the mass!" said he, looking Myles over with smiling eyes, "thou art
a right champion in good sooth. Such as thou art haply was Sir Galahad
when he came to Arthur's court. And so they tell me, thou hast stomach
to brook the Sieur de la Montaigne, that tough old boar of Dauphiny.
Hast thou in good sooth the courage to face him? Knowest thou what a
great thing it is that thou hast set upon thyself--to do battle, even in
sport, with him?"

"Yea, your Majesty," answered Myles, "well I wot it is a task haply
beyond me. But gladly would I take upon me even a greater venture, and
one more dangerous, to do your Majesty's pleasure!"

The King looked pleased. "Now that was right well said, young man," said
he, "and I like it better that it came from such young and honest lips.
Dost thou speak French?"

"Yea, your Majesty," answered Myles. "In some small measure do I so."

"I am glad of that," said the King; "for so I may make thee acquainted
with Sieur de la Montaigne."

He turned as he ended speaking, and beckoned to a heavy, thick-set,
black-browed chevalier who stood with the other gentlemen attendants at
a little distance. He came instantly forward in answer to the summons,
and the King introduced the two to one another. As each took the other
formally by the hand, he measured his opponent hastily, body and limb,
and perhaps each thought that he had never seen a stronger, stouter,
better-knit man than the one upon whom he looked. But nevertheless
the contrast betwixt the two was very great--Myles, young, boyish,
fresh-faced; the other, bronzed, weather beaten, and seamed with a great
white scar that ran across his forehead and cheek; the one a novice, the
other a warrior seasoned in twoscore battles.

A few polite phrases passed between the two, the King listening smiling,
but with an absent and far-away look gradually stealing upon his face.
As they ended speaking, a little pause of silence followed, and then the
King suddenly aroused himself.

"So," said he, "I am glad that ye two are acquainted. And now we will
leave our youthful champion in thy charge, Beaumont--and in thine, Mon
Sieur, as well--and so soon as the proper ceremonies are ended, we will
dub him knight with our own hands. And now, Mackworth, and thou my Lord
Count, let us walk a little; I have bethought me further concerning
these threescore extra men for Dauphiny."

Then Myles withdrew, under the charge of Lord George and the Sieur de
la Montaigne and while the King and the two nobles walked slowly up and
down the gravel path between the tall rose-bushes, Myles stood
talking with the gentlemen attendants, finding himself, with a certain
triumphant exultation, the peer of any and the hero of the hour.

That night was the last that Myles and Gascoyne spent lodging in the
dormitory in their squirehood service. The next day they were assigned
apartments in Lord George's part of the house, and thither they
transported themselves and their belongings, amid the awestruck wonder
and admiration of their fellow-squires.