In Myles Falworth's day one of the greatest ceremonies of courtly life
was that of the bestowal of knighthood by the King, with the honors of
the Bath. By far the greater number of knights were at that time created
by other knights, or by nobles, or by officers of the crown. To be
knighted by the King in person distinguished the recipient for life. It
was this signal honor that the Earl, for his own purposes, wished Myles
to enjoy, and for this end he had laid not a few plans.

The accolade was the term used for the creation of a knight upon the
field of battle. It was a reward of valor or of meritorious service, and
was generally bestowed in a more or less off-hand way; but the ceremony
of the Bath was an occasion of the greatest courtly moment, and it was
thus that Myles Falworth was to be knighted in addition to the honor of
a royal belting.

A quaint old book treating of knighthood and chivalry gives a full and
detailed account of all the circumstances of the ceremony of a creation
of a Knight of the Bath. It tells us that the candidate was first
placed under the care of two squires of honor, "grave and well seen in
courtship and nurture, and also in feats of chivalry," which same were
likewise to be governors in all things relating to the coming honors.

First of all, the barber shaved him, and cut his hair in a certain
peculiar fashion ordained for the occasion, the squires of honor
supervising the operation. This being concluded, the candidate was
solemnly conducted to the chamber where the bath of tepid water was
prepared, "hung within and without with linen, and likewise covered
with rich cloths and embroidered linen." While in the bath two "ancient,
grave, and reverend knights" attended the bachelor, giving him "meet
instructions in the order and feats of chivalry." The candidate was then
examined as to his knowledge and acquirements, and then, all questions
being answered to the satisfaction of his examiners, the elder of the
two dipped a handful of water out from the bath, and poured it upon his
head, at the same time signing his left shoulder with the sign of the
cross.

As soon as this ceremony was concluded, the two squires of honor helped
their charge from the bath, and conducted him to a plain bed without
hangings, where they let him rest until his body was warm and dry.
Then they clad him in a white linen shirt, and over it a plain robe of
russet, "girdled about the loins with a rope, and having a hood like
unto a hermit."

As soon as the candidate had arisen, the two "ancient knights" returned,
and all being in readiness he was escorted to the chapel, the two
walking, one upon either side of him, his squires of honor marching
before, and the whole party preceded by "sundry minstrels making a loud
noise of music."

When they came to the chapel, the two knights who escorted him took
leave of the candidate, each saluting him with a kiss upon the cheek.
No one remained with him but his squires of honor, the priest, and the
chandler.

In the mean time the novitiate's armor, sword, lance, and helmet had
been laid in readiness before the altar. These he watched and guarded
while the others slept, keeping vigil until sunrise, during which time
"he shall," says the ancient authority, "pass the night in orisons,
prayers, and meditation." At daylight he confessed to the priest, heard
matins, and communicated in mass, and then presented a lighted candle
at the altar, with a piece of money stuck in it as close to the flame
as could be done, the candle being offered to the honor of God, and the
money to the honor of that person who was to make him a knight.

So concluded the sacred ceremony, which being ended his squires
conducted the candidate to his chamber, and there made him comfortable,
and left him to repose for a while before the second and final part of
the ordinance.

Such is a shortened account of the preparatory stages of the ceremonies
through which Myles Falworth passed.

Matters had come upon him so suddenly one after the other, and had come
with such bewildering rapidity that all that week was to him like some
strange, wonderful, mysterious vision. He went through it all like one
in a dream. Lord George Beaumont was one of his squires of honor; the
other, by way of a fitting complement to the courage of the chivalrous
lad, was the Sieur de la Montaigne, his opponent soon to be. They were
well versed in everything relating to knightcraft, and Myles followed
all their directions with passive obedience. Then Sir James Lee and the
Comte de Vermoise administered the ceremony of the Bath, the old knight
examining him in the laws of chivalry.

It occurs perhaps once or twice in one's lifetime that one passes
through great happenings--sometimes of joy, sometimes of dreadful
bitterness--in just such a dazed state as Myles passed through this. It
is only afterwards that all comes back to one so sharply and keenly that
the heart thrills almost in agony in living it over again. But perhaps
of all the memory of that time, when it afterwards came back piece by
piece, none was so clear to Myles's back-turned vision as the long
night spent in the chapel, watching his armor, thinking such wonderful
thoughts, and dreaming such wonderful wide-eyed dreams. At such times
Myles saw again the dark mystery of the castle chapel; he saw again the
half-moon gleaming white and silvery through the tall, narrow window,
and throwing a broad form of still whiteness across stone floor, empty
seats, and still, motionless figures of stone effigies. At such times
he stood again in front of the twinkling tapers that lit the altar where
his armor lay piled in a heap, heard again the deep breathing of his
companions of the watch sleeping in some empty stall, wrapped each in
his cloak, and saw the old chandler bestir himself, and rise and come
forward to snuff the candles. At such times he saw again the day growing
clearer and clearer through the tall, glazed windows, saw it change to
a rosy pink, and then to a broad, ruddy glow that threw a halo of light
around Father Thomas's bald head bowed in sleep, and lit up the banners
and trophies hanging motionless against the stony face of the west wall;
heard again the stirring of life without and the sound of his companions
arousing themselves; saw them come forward, and heard them wish him joy
that his long watch was ended.


It was nearly noon when Myles was awakened from a fitful sleep by
Gascoyne bringing in his dinner, but, as might be supposed, he had but
little hunger, and ate sparingly. He had hardly ended his frugal meal
before his two squires of honor came in, followed by a servant carrying
the garments for the coming ceremony. He saluted them gravely, and then
arising, washed his face and hands in a basin which Gascoyne held; then
kneeled in prayer, the others standing silent at a little distance. As
he arose, Lord George came forward.

"The King and the company come presently to the Great Hall, Myles," said
he; "it is needful for thee to make all the haste that thou art able."

Perhaps never had Devlen Castle seen a more brilliant and goodly company
gathered in the great hall than that which came to witness King Henry
create Myles Falworth a knight bachelor.

At the upper end of the hall was a raised dais, upon which stood
a throne covered with crimson satin and embroidered with lions and
flower-deluces; it was the King's seat. He and his personal attendants
had not yet come, but the rest of the company were gathered. The day
being warm and sultry, the balcony was all aflutter with the feather
fans of the ladies of the family and their attendants, who from this
high place looked down upon the hall below. Up the centre of the hall
was laid a carpet of arras, and the passage was protected by wooden
railings. Upon the one side were tiers of seats for the castle
gentlefolks and the guests. Upon the other stood the burghers from the
town, clad in sober dun and russet, and yeomanry in green and brown. The
whole of the great vaulted hall was full of the dull hum of many people
waiting, and a ceaseless restlessness stirred the crowded throng. But
at last a whisper went around that the King was coming. A momentary hush
fell, and through it was heard the noisy clatter of horses' feet coming
nearer and nearer, and then stopping before the door. The sudden blare
of trumpets broke through the hush; another pause, and then in through
the great door-way of the hall came the royal procession.

First of all marched, in the order of their rank, and to the number of
a score or more, certain gentlemen, esquires and knights, chosen mostly
from the King's attendants. Behind these came two pursuivants-at-arms
in tabards, and following them a party of a dozen more bannerets
and barons. Behind these again, a little space intervening, came two
heralds, also in tabards, a group of the greater nobles attendant
upon the King following in the order of their rank. Next came the
King-at-arms and, at a little distance and walking with sober slowness,
the King himself, with the Earl and the Count directly attendant upon
him--the one marching upon the right hand and the other upon the left.
A breathless silence filled the whole space as the royal procession
advanced slowly up the hall. Through the stillness could be heard the
muffled sound of the footsteps on the carpet, the dry rustling of
silk and satin garments, and the clear clink and jingle of chains and
jewelled ornaments, but not the sound of a single voice.

After the moment or two of bustle and confusion of the King taking his
place had passed, another little space of expectant silence fell. At
last there suddenly came the noise of acclamation of those who stood
without the door--cheering and the clapping of hands--sounds heralding
the immediate advent of Myles and his attendants. The next moment the
little party entered the hall.

First of all, Gascoyne, bearing Myles's sword in both hands, the hilt
resting against his breast, the point elevated at an angle of forty-five
degrees. It was sheathed in a crimson scabbard, and the belt of Spanish
leather studded with silver bosses was wound crosswise around it. From
the hilt of the sword dangled the gilt spurs of his coming knighthood.
At a little distance behind his squire followed Myles, the centre of
all observation. He was clad in a novitiate dress, arranged under Lord
George's personal supervision. It had been made somewhat differently
from the fashion usual at such times, and was intended to indicate in a
manner the candidate's extreme youthfulness and virginity in arms. The
outer garment was a tabard robe of white wool, embroidered at the hem
with fine lines of silver, and gathered loosely at the waist with a belt
of lavender leather stitched with thread of silver. Beneath he was clad
in armor (a present from the Earl), new and polished till it shone with
dazzling brightness, the breastplate covered with a juppon of white
satin, embroidered with silver. Behind Myles, and upon either hand, came
his squires of honor, sponsors, and friends--a little company of
some half-dozen in all. As they advanced slowly up the great, dim,
high-vaulted room, the whole multitude broke forth into a humming buzz
of applause. Then a sudden clapping of hands began near the door-way,
ran down through the length of the room, and was taken up by all with
noisy clatter.

"Saw I never youth so comely," whispered one of the Lady Anne's
attendant gentlewomen. "Sure he looketh as Sir Galahad looked when he
came first to King Arthur's court."

Myles knew that he was very pale; he felt rather than saw the restless
crowd of faces upon either side, for his eyes were fixed directly before
him, upon the dais whereon sat the King, with the Earl of Mackworth
standing at his right hand, the Comte de Vermoise upon the left, and the
others ranged around and behind the throne. It was with the same tense
feeling of dreamy unreality that Myles walked slowly up the length of
the hall, measuring his steps by those of Gascoyne. Suddenly he
felt Lord George Beaumont touch him lightly upon the arm, and almost
instinctively he stopped short--he was standing just before the covered
steps of the throne.

He saw Gascoyne mount to the third step, stop short, kneel, and offer
the sword and the spurs he carried to the King, who took the weapon
and laid it across his knees. Then the squire bowed low, and walking
backward withdrew to one side, leaving Myles standing alone facing the
throne. The King unlocked the spur chains from the sword-hilt, and
then, holding the gilt spurs in his hand for a moment, he looked Myles
straight in the eyes and smiled. Then he turned, and gave one of the
spurs to the Earl of Mackworth.

The Earl took it with a low bow, turned, and came slowly down the steps
to where Myles stood. Kneeling upon one knee, and placing Myles's foot
upon the other, Lord Mackworth set the spur in its place and latched the
chain over the instep. He drew the sign of the cross upon Myles's bended
knee, set the foot back upon the ground, rose with slow dignity, and
bowing to the King, drew a little to one side.

As soon as the Earl had fulfilled his office the King gave the second
spur to the Comte de Vermoise, who set it to Myles's other foot with the
same ceremony that the Earl had observed, withdrawing as he had done to
one side.

An instant pause of motionless silence followed, and then the King
slowly arose, and began deliberately to unwind the belt from around the
scabbard of the sword he held. As soon as he stood, the Earl and the
Count advanced, and taking Myles by either hand, led him forward and up
the steps of the dais to the platform above. As they drew a little to
one side, the King stooped and buckled the sword-belt around Myles's
waist, then, rising again, lifted his hand and struck him upon the
shoulder, crying, in a loud voice.

"Be thou a good knight!"

Instantly a loud sound of applause and the clapping of hands filled the
whole hall, in the midst of which the King laid both hands upon Myles's
shoulders and kissed him upon the right cheek. So the ceremony ended;
Myles was no longer Myles Falworth, but Sir Myles Falworth, Knight by
Order of the Bath and by grace of the King!