And now, at last, had come the day of days for Myles Falworth; the day
when he was to put to the test all that he had acquired in the three
years of his training, the day that was to disclose what promise of
future greatness there was in his strong young body. And it was a noble
day; one of those of late September, when the air seems sweeter and
fresher than at other times; the sun bright and as yellow as gold, the
wind lusty and strong, before which the great white clouds go sailing
majestically across the bright blueness of the sky above, while their
dusky shadows skim across the brown face of the rusty earth beneath.

As was said before, the lists had been set up in the great quadrangle
of the castle, than which, level and smooth as a floor, no more fitting
place could be chosen. The course was of the usual size--sixty paces
long--and separated along its whole length by a barrier about five feet
high. Upon the west side of the course and about twenty paces distant
from it, a scaffolding had been built facing towards the east so as to
avoid the glare of the afternoon sun. In the centre was a raised dais,
hung round with cloth of blue embroidered with lions rampant. Upon the
dais stood a cushioned throne for the King, and upon the steps below,
ranged in the order of their dignity, were seats for the Earl, his
guests, the family, the ladies, knights, and gentlemen of the castle.
In front, the scaffolding was covered with the gayest tapestries and
brightest-colored hangings that the castle could afford. And above,
parti-colored pennants and streamers, surmounted by the royal ensign of
England, waved and fluttered in the brisk wind.

At either end of the lists stood the pavilions of the knights. That of
Myles was at the southern extremity and was hung, by the Earl's desire,
with cloth of the Beaumont colors (black and yellow), while a wooden
shield bearing three goshawks spread (the crest of the house) was nailed
to the roof, and a long streamer of black and yellow trailed out in the
wind from the staff above. Myles, partly armed, stood at the door-way of
the pavilion, watching the folk gathering at the scaffolding. The ladies
of the house were already seated, and the ushers were bustling hither
and thither, assigning the others their places. A considerable crowd
of common folk and burghers from the town had already gathered at
the barriers opposite, and as he looked at the restless and growing
multitude he felt his heart beat quickly and his flesh grow cold with a
nervous trepidation--just such as the lad of to-day feels when he sees
the auditorium filling with friends and strangers who are to listen
by-and-by to the reading of his prize poem.

Suddenly there came a loud blast of trumpets. A great gate at the
farther extremity of the lists was thrown open, and the King appeared,
riding upon a white horse, preceded by the King-at-arms and the heralds,
attended by the Earl and the Comte de Vermoise, and followed by a crowd
of attendants. Just then Gascoyne, who, with Wilkes, was busied lacing
some of the armor plates with new thongs, called Myles, and he turned
and entered the pavilion.

As the two squires were adjusting these last pieces, strapping them in
place and tying the thongs, Lord George and Sir James Lee entered
the pavilion. Lord George took the young man by the hand, and with a
pleasant smile wished him success in the coming encounter.

Sir James seemed anxious and disturbed. He said nothing, and after
Gascoyne had placed the open bascinet that supports the tilting helm
in its place, he came forward and examined the armor piece by piece,
carefully and critically, testing the various straps and leather points
and thongs to make sure of their strength.

"Sir," said Gascoyne, who stood by watching him anxiously, "I do trust
that I have done all meetly and well."

"I see nothing amiss, sirrah," said the old knight, half grudgingly. "So
far as I may know, he is ready to mount."

Just then a messenger entered, saying that the King was seated, and Lord
George bade Myles make haste to meet the challenger.

"Francis," said Myles, "prithee give me my pouch yonder."

Gascoyne handed him the velvet bag, and he opened it, and took out the
necklace that the Lady Alice had given him the day before.

"Tie me this around my arm," said he. He looked down, keeping his eyes
studiously fixed on Gascoyne's fingers, as they twined the thin golden
chain around the iron plates of his right arm, knowing that Lord
George's eyes were upon him, and blushing fiery red at the knowledge.

Sir James was at that moment examining the great tilting helm, and Lord
George watched him, smiling amusedly. "And hast thou then already chosen
thee a lady?" he said, presently.

"Aye, my Lord," answered Myles, simply.

"Marry, I trust we be so honored that she is one of our castle folk,"
said the Earl's brother.

For a moment Myles did not reply; then he looked up. "My Lord," said he,
"the favor was given to me by the Lady Alice."

Lord George looked grave for the moment; then he laughed. "Marry, thou
art a bold archer to shoot for such high game."

Myles did not answer, and at that moment two grooms led his horse up to
the door of the pavilion. Gascoyne and Wilkes helped him to his saddle,
and then, Gascoyne holding his horse by the bridle-rein, he rode slowly
across the lists to the little open space in front of the scaffolding
and the King's seat just as the Sieur de la Montaigne approached from
the opposite direction.

As soon as the two knights champion had reached each his appointed
station in front of the scaffolding, the Marshal bade the speaker read
the challenge, which, unrolling the parchment, he began to do in a loud,
clear voice, so that all might hear. It was a quaint document, wrapped
up in the tangled heraldic verbiage of the time.

The pith of the matter was that the Sieur Brian Philip Francis de la
Montaigne proclaimed before all men the greater chivalry and skill at
arms of the knights of France and of Dauphiny, and likewise the greater
fairness of the ladies of France and Dauphiny, and would there defend
those sayings with his body without fear or attaint as to the truth of
the same. As soon as the speaker had ended, the Marshal bade him call
the defendant of the other side.

Then Myles spoke his part, with a voice trembling somewhat with the
excitement of the moment, but loudly and clearly enough: "I, Myles
Edward Falworth, knight, so created by the hand and by the grace of
his Majesty King Henry IV of England, do take upon me the gage of this
battle, and will defend with my body the chivalry of the knights of
England and the fairness of the ladies thereof!"

Then, after the speaker ended his proclamation and had retired to his
place, the ceremony of claiming and redeeming the helmet, to which
all young knights were subjected upon first entering the lists, was
performed.

One of the heralds cried in a loud voice, "I, Gilles Hamerton, herald to
the most noble Clarencieux King-at-arms, do claim the helm of Sir Myles
Edward Falworth by this reason, that he hath never yet entered joust or
tourney."

To which Myles answered, "I do acknowledge the right of that claim, and
herewith proffer thee in ransom for the same this purse of one hundred
marks in gold."

As he spoke, Gascoyne stepped forward and delivered the purse, with the
money, to the Herald. It was a more than usually considerable ransom,
and had been made up by the Earl and Lord George that morning.

"Right nobly hast thou redeemed thy helm," said the Herald, "and
hereafter be thou free to enter any jousting whatsoever, and in whatever
place."

So, all being ended, both knights bowed to the King, and then, escorted
each by his squire, returned to his pavilion, saluted by the spectators
with a loud clapping of hands.

Sir James Lee met Myles in front of his tent. Coming up to the side of
the horse, the old man laid his hand upon the saddle, looking up into
the young man's face.

"Thou wilt not fail in this venture and bring shame upon me?" said he.

"Nay, my dear master," said Myles; "I will do my best."

"I doubt it not," said the old man; "and I believe me thou wilt come off
right well. From what he did say this morning, methinks the Sieur de la
Montaigne meaneth only to break three lances with thee, and will content
himself therewith, without seeking to unhorse thee. Ne'theless, be thou
bold and watchful, and if thou find that he endeavor to cast thee, do
thy best to unhorse him. Remember also those things which I have told
thee ten thousand times before: hold thy toes well down and grip the
stirrup hard, more especially at the moment of meeting; bend thy body
forward, and keep thine elbow close to thy side. Bear thy lance point
one foot above thine adversary's helm until within two lengths of
meeting, and strike thou in the very middle of his shield. So, Myles,
thou mayst hold thine own, and come off with glory."

As he ended speaking he drew back, and Gascoyne, mounting upon a stool,
covered his friend's head and bascinet with the great jousting helm,
making fast the leathern points that held it to the iron collar.

As he was tying the last thong a messenger came from the Herald, saying
that the challenger was ready, and then Myles knew the time had come,
and reaching down and giving Sir James a grip of the hand, he drew on
his gauntlet, took the jousting lance that Wilkes handed him, and turned
his horse's head towards his end of the lists.