As Myles took his place at the south end of the lists, he found the
Sieur de la Montaigne already at his station. Through the peep-hole in
the face of the huge helmet, a transverse slit known as the occularium,
he could see, like a strange narrow picture, the farther end of
the lists, the spectators upon either side moving and shifting with
ceaseless restlessness, and in the centre of all, his opponent, sitting
with spear point directed upward, erect, motionless as a statue of iron,
the sunlight gleaming and flashing upon his polished plates of steel,
and the trappings of his horse swaying and fluttering in the rushing of
the fresh breeze.

Upon that motionless figure his sight gradually centred with every
faculty of mind and soul. He knew the next moment the signal would be
given that was to bring him either glory or shame from that iron statue.
He ground his teeth together with stern resolve to do his best in the
coming encounter, and murmured a brief prayer in the hallow darkness of
his huge helm. Then with a shake he settled himself more firmly in his
saddle, slowly raised his spear point until the shaft reached the exact
angle, and there suffered it to rest motionless. There was a moment of
dead, tense, breathless pause, then he rather felt than saw the Marshal
raise his baton. He gathered himself together, and the next moment a
bugle sounded loud and clear. In one blinding rush he drove his spurs
into the sides of his horse, and in instant answer felt the noble steed
spring forward with a bound.

Through all the clashing of his armor reverberating in the hollow depths
of his helmet, he saw the mail-clad figure from the other end of the
lists rushing towards him, looming larger and larger as they came
together. He gripped his saddle with his knees, clutched the stirrup
with the soles of his feet, and bent his body still more forward. In the
instant of meeting, with almost the blindness of instinct, he dropped
the point of his spear against the single red flower-de-luce in the
middle of the on-coming shield. There was a thunderous crash that seemed
to rack every joint, he heard the crackle of splintered wood, he felt
the momentary trembling recoil of the horse beneath him, and in the next
instant had passed by. As he checked the onward rush of his horse at the
far end of the course, he heard faintly in the dim hollow recess of the
helm the loud shout and the clapping of hands of those who looked on,
and found himself gripping with nervous intensity the butt of a broken
spear, his mouth clammy with excitement, and his heart thumping in his
throat.

Then he realized that he had met his opponent, and had borne the meeting
well. As he turned his horse's head towards his own end of the lists, he
saw the other trotting slowly back towards his station, also holding a
broken spear shaft in his hand.

As he passed the iron figure a voice issued from the helmet, "Well done,
Sir Myles, nobly done!" and his heart bounded in answer to the words of
praise. When he had reached his own end of the lists, he flung away his
broken spear, and Gascoyne came forward with another.

"Oh, Myles!" he said, with sob in his voice, "it was nobly done. Never
did I see a better ridden course in all my life. I did not believe that
thou couldst do half so well. Oh, Myles, prithee knock him out of his
saddle an thou lovest me!"

Myles, in his high-keyed nervousness, could not forbear a short
hysterical laugh at his friend's warmth of enthusiasm. He took the fresh
lance in his hand, and then, seeing that his opponent was walking his
horse slowly up and down at his end of the lists, did the same during
the little time of rest before the next encounter.

When, in answer to the command of the Marshal, he took his place a
second time, he found himself calmer and more collected than before, but
every faculty no less intensely fixed than it had been at first. Once
more the Marshal raised his baton, once more the horn sounded, and once
more the two rushed together with the same thunderous crash, the same
splinter of broken spears, the same momentary trembling recoil of
the horse, and the same onward rush past one another. Once more the
spectators applauded and shouted as the two knights turned their horses
and rode back towards their station.

This time as they met midway the Sieur de la Montaigne reined in his
horse. "Sir Myles," said his muffled voice, "I swear to thee, by my
faith, I had not thought to meet in thee such an opponent as thou dost
prove thyself to be. I had thought to find in thee a raw boy, but find
instead a Paladin. Hitherto I have given thee grace as I would
give grace to any mere lad, and thought of nothing but to give thee
opportunity to break thy lance. Now I shall do my endeavor to unhorse
thee as I would an acknowledged peer in arms. Nevertheless, on account
of thy youth, I give thee this warning, so that thou mayst hold thyself
in readiness."

"I give thee gramercy for thy courtesy, my Lord," answered Myles,
speaking in French; "and I will strive to encounter thee as best I may,
and pardon me if I seem forward in so saying, but were I in thy place,
my Lord, I would change me yon breast-piece and over-girth of my saddle;
they are sprung in the stitches."

"Nay," said the Sieur de la Montaigne, laughing, "breast-piece and
over-girth have carried me through more tilts than one, and shall
through this. An thou give me a blow so true as to burst breast-piece
and over-girth, I will own myself fairly conquered by thee." So saying,
he saluted Myles with the butt of the spear he still held, and passed by
to his end of the lists.

Myles, with Gascoyne running beside him, rode across to his pavilion,
and called to Edmund Wilkes to bring him a cup of spiced wine. After
Gascoyne had taken off his helmet, and as he sat wiping the perspiration
from his face Sir James came up and took him by the hand.

"My dear boy," said he, gripping the hand he held, "never could I hope
to be so overjoyed in mine old age as I am this day. Thou dost bring
honor to me, for I tell thee truly thou dost ride like a knight seasoned
in twenty tourneys."

"It doth give me tenfold courage to hear thee so say, dear master,"
answered Myles. "And truly," he added, "I shall need all my courage
this bout, for the Sieur de la Montaigne telleth me that he will ride to
unhorse me this time."

"Did he indeed so say?" said Sir James. "Then belike he meaneth to
strike at thy helm. Thy best chance is to strike also at his. Doth thy
hand tremble?"

"Not now," answered Myles.

"Then keep thy head cool and thine eye true. Set thy trust in God, and
haply thou wilt come out of this bout honorably in spite of the rawness
of thy youth."

Just then Edmund Wilkes presented the cup of wine to Myles, who drank it
off at a draught, and thereupon Gascoyne replaced the helm and tied the
thongs.

The charge that Sir James Lee had given to Myles to strike at his
adversary's helm was a piece of advice he probably would not have given
to so young a knight, excepting as a last resort. A blow perfectly
delivered upon the helm was of all others the most difficult for the
recipient to recover from, but then a blow upon the helm was not one
time in fifty perfectly given. The huge cylindrical tilting helm was so
constructed in front as to slope at an angle in all directions to one
point. That point was the centre of a cross formed by two iron bands
welded to the steel-face plates of the helm where it was weakened by the
opening slit of the occularium, or peephole. In the very centre of
this cross was a little flattened surface where the bands were riveted
together, and it was upon that minute point that the blow must be given
to be perfect, and that stroke Myles determined to attempt.

As he took his station Edmund Wilkes came running across from the
pavilion with a lance that Sir James had chosen, and Myles, returning
the one that Gascoyne had just given him, took it in his hand. It was
of seasoned oak, somewhat thicker than the other, a tough weapon, not
easily to be broken even in such an encounter as he was like to have. He
balanced the weapon, and found that it fitted perfectly to his grasp.
As he raised the point to rest, his opponent took his station at the
farther extremity of the lists, and again there was a little space of
breathless pause. Myles was surprised at his own coolness; every nervous
tremor was gone. Before, he had been conscious of the critical multitude
looking down upon him; now it was a conflict of man to man, and such a
conflict had no terrors for his young heart of iron.

The spectators had somehow come to the knowledge that this was to be
a more serious encounter than the two which had preceded it, and a
breathless silence fell for the moment or two that the knights stood in
place.

Once more he breathed a short prayer, "Holy Mary, guard me!"

Then again, for the third time, the Marshal raised his baton, and the
horn sounded, and for the third time Myles drove his spurs into his
horse's flanks. Again he saw the iron figure of his opponent rushing
nearer, nearer, nearer. He centred, with a straining intensity, every
faculty of soul, mind, and body upon one point--the cross of the
occularium, the mark he was to strike. He braced himself for the
tremendous shock which he knew must meet him, and then in a flash
dropped lance point straight and true. The next instant there was a
deafening stunning crash--a crash like the stroke of a thunder-bolt.
There was a dazzling blaze of blinding light, and a myriad sparks danced
and flickered and sparkled before his eyes. He felt his horse stagger
under him with the recoil, and hardly knowing what he did, he drove
his spurs deep into its sides with a shout. At the same moment there
resounded in his ears a crashing rattle and clatter, he knew not of
what, and then, as his horse recovered and sprang forward, and as the
stunning bewilderment passed, he found that his helmet had been
struck off. He heard a great shout arise from all, and thought, with a
sickening, bitter disappointment, that it was because he had lost. At
the farther end of the course he turned his horse, and then his heart
gave a leap and a bound as though it would burst, the blood leaped to
his cheeks tingling, and his bosom thrilled with an almost agonizing
pang of triumph, of wonder, of amazement.

There, in a tangle of his horse's harness and of embroidered trappings,
the Sieur de la Montaigne lay stretched upon the ground, with his saddle
near by, and his riderless horse was trotting aimlessly about at the
farther end of the lists.

Myles saw the two squires of the fallen knight run across to where their
master lay, he saw the ladies waving their kerchiefs and veils, and the
castle people swinging their hats and shouting in an ecstasy of delight.
Then he rode slowly back to where the squires were now aiding the fallen
knight to arise. The senior squire drew his dagger, cut the leather
points, and drew off the helm, disclosing the knight's face--a face
white as death, and convulsed with rage, mortification, and bitter
humiliation.

"I was not rightly unhorsed!" he cried, hoarsely and with livid lips,
to the Marshal and his attendants, who had ridden up. "I unhelmed him
fairly enough, but my over-girth and breast-strap burst, and my saddle
slipped. I was not unhorsed, I say, and I lay claim that I unhelmed
him."

"Sir," said the Marshal calmly, and speaking in French, "surely thou
knowest that the loss of helmet does not decide an encounter. I need not
remind thee, my Lord, that it was so awarded by John of Gaunt, Duke of
Lancaster, when in the jousting match between Reynand de Roye and John
de Holland, the Sieur Reynand left every point of his helm loosened, so
that the helm was beaten off at each stroke. If he then was justified in
doing so of his own choice, and wilfully suffering to be unhelmed, how
then can this knight be accused of evil who suffered it by chance?"

"Nevertheless," said the Sieur de la Montaigne, in the same hoarse,
breathless voice, "I do affirm, and will make my affirmation good
with my body, that I fell only by the breaking of my girth. Who says
otherwise lies!"

"It is the truth he speaketh," said Myles. "I myself saw the stitches
were some little what burst, and warned him thereof before we ran this
course.

"Sir," said the Marshal to the Sieur de la Montaigne, "how can you now
complain of that thing which your own enemy advised you of and warned
you against? Was it not right knightly for him so to do?"

The Sieur de la Montaigne stood quite still for a little while, leaning
on the shoulder of his chief squire, looking moodily upon the ground;
then, without making answer, he turned, and walked slowly away to his
pavilion, still leaning on his squire's shoulder, whilst the other
attendant followed behind, bearing his shield and helmet.

Gascoyne had picked up Myles's fallen helmet as the Sieur de la
Montaigne moved away, and Lord George and Sir James Lee came walking
across the lists to where Myles still sat. Then, the one taking his
horse by the bridle-rein, and the other walking beside the saddle, they
led him before the raised dais where the King sat.

Even the Comte de Vermoise, mortified and amazed as he must have been
at the overthrow of his best knight, joined in the praise and
congratulation that poured upon the young conqueror. Myles, his heart
swelling with a passion of triumphant delight, looked up and met the
gaze of Lady Alice fixed intently upon him. A red spot of excitement
still burned in either cheek, and it flamed to a rosier red as he bowed
his head to her before turning away.

Gascoyne had just removed Myles's breastplate and gorget, when Sir James
Lee burst into the pavilion. All his grim coldness was gone, and he
flung his arms around the young man's neck, hugging him heartily, and
kissing him upon either cheek.

Ere he let him go, "Mine own dear boy," he said, holding him off at
arm's-length, and winking his one keen eye rapidly, as though to wink
away a dampness of which he was ashamed--"mine own dear boy, I do tell
thee truly this is as sweet to me as though thou wert mine own son;
sweeter to me than when I first broke mine own lance in triumph, and
felt myself to be a right knight."

"Sir," answered Myles, "what thou sayest doth rejoice my very heart.
Ne'theless, it is but just to say that both his breast-piece and
over-girth were burst in the stitches before he ran his course, for so I
saw with mine own eyes."

"Burst in the stitches!" snorted Sir James. "Thinkest thou he did not
know in what condition was his horse's gearing? I tell thee he went down
because thou didst strike fair and true, and he did not so strike thee.
Had he been Guy of Warwick he had gone down all the same under such a
stroke and in such case."