It was not until more than three weeks after the King had left Devlen
Castle that Lord George and his company of knights and archers were
ready for the expedition to France. Two weeks of that time Myles spent
at Crosbey-Dale with his father and mother. It was the first time that
he had seen them since, four years ago, he had quitted the low, narrow,
white-walled farmhouse for the castle of the great Earl of Mackworth. He
had never appreciated before how low and narrow and poor the farm-house
was. Now, with his eyes trained to the bigness of Devlen Castle,
he looked around him with wonder and pity at his father's humble
surroundings. He realized as he never else could have realized how great
was the fall in fortune that had cast the house of Falworth down from
its rightful station to such a level as that upon which it now rested.
And at the same time that he thus recognized how poor was their lot, how
dependent upon the charity of others, he also recognized how generous
was the friendship of Prior Edward, who perilled his own safety so
greatly in affording the family of the attainted Lord an asylum in its
bitter hour of need and peril.

Myles paid many visits to the gentle old priest during those two weeks'
visit, and had many long and serious talks with him. One warm bright
afternoon, as he and the old man walked together in the priory garden,
after a game or two of draughts, the young knight talked more freely and
openly of his plans, his hopes, his ambitions, than perhaps he had
ever done. He told the old man all that the Earl had disclosed to him
concerning the fallen fortunes of his father's house, and of how all
who knew those circumstances looked to him to set the family in its old
place once more. Prior Edward added many things to those which Myles
already knew--things of which the Earl either did not know, or did not
choose to speak. He told the young man, among other matters, the reason
of the bitter and lasting enmity that the King felt for the blind
nobleman: that Lord Falworth had been one of King Richard's council in
times past; that it was not a little owing to him that King Henry, when
Earl of Derby, had been banished from England, and that though he
was then living in the retirement of private life, he bitterly and
steadfastly opposed King Richard's abdication. He told Myles that at the
time when Sir John Dale found shelter at Falworth Castle, vengeance was
ready to fall upon his father at any moment, and it needed only such a
pretext as that of sheltering so prominent a conspirator as Sir John to
complete his ruin.

Myles, as he listened intently, could not but confess in his own mind
that the King had many rational, perhaps just, grounds for grievance
against such an ardent opponent as the blind Lord had shown himself to
be. "But, sir," said he, after a little space of silence, when Prior
Edward had ended, "to hold enmity and to breed treason are very
different matters. Haply my father was Bolingbroke's enemy, but, sure,
thou dost not believe he is justly and rightfully tainted with treason?"

"Nay," answered the priest, "how canst thou ask me such a thing? Did I
believe thy father a traitor, thinkest thou I would thus tell his son
thereof? Nay, Myles, I do know thy father well, and have known him for
many years, and this of him, that few men are so honorable in heart and
soul as he. But I have told thee all these things to show that the King
is not without some reason to be thy father's unfriend. Neither, haply,
is the Earl of Alban without cause of enmity against him. So thou, upon
thy part, shouldst not feel bitter rancor against the King for what hath
happed to thy house, nor even against William Brookhurst--I mean the
Earl of Alban--for, I tell thee, the worst of our enemies and the worst
of men believe themselves always to have right and justice upon their
side, even when they most wish evil to others."

So spoke the gentle old priest, who looked from his peaceful haven with
dreamy eyes upon the sweat and tussle of the world's battle. Had he
instead been in the thick of the fight, it might have been harder for
him to believe that his enemies ever had right upon their side.

"But tell me this," said Myles, presently, "dost thou, then, think that
I do evil in seeking to do a battle of life or death with this wicked
Earl of Alban, who hath so ruined my father in body and fortune?"

"Nay," said Prior Edward, thoughtfully, "I say not that thou doest evil.
War and bloodshed seem hard and cruel matters to me; but God hath given
that they be in the world, and may He forbid that such a poor worm as I
should say that they be all wrong and evil. Meseems even an evil thing
is sometimes passing good when rightfully used."

Myles did not fully understand what the old man meant, but this much he
gathered, that his spiritual father did not think ill of his fighting
the Earl of Alban for his temporal father's sake.

So Myles went to France in Lord George's company, a soldier of fortune,
as his Captain was. He was there for only six months, but those six
months wrought a great change in his life. In the fierce factional
battles that raged around the walls of Paris; in the evil life which
he saw at the Burgundian court in Paris itself after the truce--a court
brilliant and wicked, witty and cruel--the wonderful liquor of youth had
evaporated rapidly, and his character had crystallized as rapidly into
the hardness of manhood. The warfare, the blood, the evil pleasures
which he had seen had been a fiery, crucible test to his soul, and I
love my hero that he should have come forth from it so well. He was no
longer the innocent Sir Galahad who had walked in pure white up the
Long Hall to be knighted by the King, but his soul was of that grim,
sterling, rugged sort that looked out calmly from his gray eyes upon the
wickedness and debauchery around him, and loved it not.

Then one day a courier came, bringing a packet. It was a letter from the
Earl, bidding Myles return straightway to England and to Mackworth House
upon the Strand, nigh to London, without delay, and Myles knew that his
time had come.

It was a bright day in April when he and Gascoyne rode clattering out
through Temple Bar, leaving behind them quaint old London town, its
blank stone wall, its crooked, dirty streets, its high-gabled wooden
houses, over which rose the sharp spire of St. Paul's, towering high
into the golden air. Before them stretched the straight, broad highway
of the Strand, on one side the great houses and palaces of princely
priests and powerful nobles; on the other the Covent Garden, (or the
Convent Garden, as it was then called), and the rolling country, where
great stone windmills swung their slow-moving arms in the damp, soft
April breeze, and away in the distance the Scottish Palace, the White
Hall, and Westminster.

It was the first time that Myles had seen famous London town. In that
dim and distant time of his boyhood, six months before, he would
have been wild with delight and enthusiasm. Now he jogged along with
Gascoyne, gazing about him with calm interest at open shops and booths
and tall, gabled houses; at the busy throng of merchants and craftsmen,
jostling and elbowing one another; at townsfolk--men and dames--picking
their way along the muddy kennel of a sidewalk. He had seen so much of
the world that he had lost somewhat of interest in new things. So he
did not care to tarry, but rode, with a mind heavy with graver matters,
through the streets and out through the Temple Bar direct for Mackworth
House, near the Savoy Palace.

It was with a great deal of interest that Myles and his patron regarded
one another when they met for the first time after that half-year which
the young soldier had spent in France. To Myles it seemed somehow very
strange that his Lordship's familiar face and figure should look so
exactly the same. To Lord Mackworth, perhaps, it seemed even more
strange that six short months should have wrought so great a change in
the young man. The rugged exposure in camp and field during the hard
winter that had passed had roughened the smooth bloom of his boyish
complexion and bronzed his fair skin almost as much as a midsummer's sun
could have done. His beard and mustache had grown again, (now heavier
and more mannish from having been shaved), and the white seam of a scar
over the right temple gave, if not a stern, at least a determined look
to the strong, square-jawed young face. So the two stood for a while
regarding one another. Myles was the first to break the silence.

"My Lord," said he, "thou didst send for me to come back to England;
behold, here am I."

"When didst thou land, Sir Myles?" said the Earl.

"I and my squire landed at Dover upon Tuesday last," answered the young
man.

The Earl of Mackworth stroked his beard softly. "Thou art marvellous
changed," said he. "I would not have thought it possible."

Myles smiled somewhat grimly. "I have seen such things, my Lord, in
France and in Paris," said he, quietly, "as, mayhap, may make a lad a
man before his time."

"From which I gather," said the Earl, "that many adventures have
befallen thee. Methought thou wouldst find troublesome times in the
Dauphin's camp, else I would not have sent thee to France."

A little space of silence followed, during which the Earl sat musingly,
half absently, regarding the tall, erect, powerful young figure standing
before him, awaiting his pleasure in motionless, patient, almost dogged
silence. The strong, sinewy hands were clasped and rested upon the long
heavy sword, around the scabbard of which the belt was loosely wrapped,
and the plates of mail caught and reflected in flashing, broken pieces,
the bright sunlight from the window behind.

"Sir Myles," said the Earl, suddenly, breaking the silence at last,
"dost thou know why I sent for thee hither?"

"Aye," said Myles, calmly, "how can I else? Thou wouldst not have called
me from Paris but for one thing. Methinks thou hast sent for me to fight
the Earl of Alban, and lo! I am here."

"Thou speakest very boldly," said the Earl. "I do hope that thy deeds be
as bold as thy words."

"That," said Myles, "thou must ask other men. Methinks no one may justly
call me coward."

"By my troth!" said the Earl, smiling, "looking upon thee--limbs and
girth, bone and sinew--I would not like to be the he that would dare
accuse thee of such a thing. As for thy surmise, I may tell thee plain
that thou art right, and that it was to fight the Earl of Alban I sent
for thee hither. The time is now nearly ripe, and I will straightway
send for thy father to come to London. Meantime it would not be safe
either for thee or for me to keep thee in my service. I have spoken to
his Highness the Prince of Wales, who, with other of the Princes, is
upon our side in this quarrel. He hath promised to take thee into his
service until the fitting time comes to bring thee and thine enemy
together, and to-morrow I shall take thee to Scotland Yard, where his
Highness is now lodging."

As the Earl ended his speech, Myles bowed, but did not speak. The Earl
waited for a little while, as though to give him the opportunity to
answer.

"Well, sirrah," said he at last, with a shade of impatience, "hast thou
naught to say? Meseems thou takest all this with marvellous coolness."

"Have I then my Lord's permission to speak my mind?"

"Aye," said the Earl, "say thy say."

"Sir," said Myles, "I have thought and pondered this matter much while
abroad, and would now ask thee a plain question in all honest an I ha'
thy leave."

The Earl nodded his head.

"Sir, am I not right in believing that thou hast certain weighty
purposes and aims of thine own to gain an I win this battle against the
Earl of Alban?"

"Has my brother George been telling thee aught to such a purpose?" said
the Earl, after a moment or two of silence.

Myles did not answer.

"No matter," added Lord Mackworth. "I will not ask thee who told thee
such a thing. As for thy question--well, sin thou ask it frankly, I will
be frank with thee. Yea, I have certain ends to gain in having the Earl
of Alban overthrown."

Myles bowed. "Sir," said he, "haply thine ends are as much beyond aught
that I can comprehend as though I were a little child; only this I know,
that they must be very great. Thou knowest well that in any case I would
fight me this battle for my father's sake and for the honor of my house;
nevertheless, in return for all that it will so greatly advantage thee,
wilt thou not grant me a boon in return should I overcome mine enemy?"

"What is thy boon, Sir Myles?"

"That thou wilt grant me thy favor to seek the Lady Alice de Mowbray for
my wife."

The Earl of Mackworth started up from his seat. "Sir Myles Falworth"--he
began, violently, and then stopped short, drawing his bushy eyebrows
together into a frown stern, if not sinister.

Myles withstood his look calmly and impassively, and presently the Earl
turned on his heel, and strode to the open window. A long time passed in
silence while he stood there, gazing out of the window into the garden
beyond with his back to the young man.

Suddenly he swung around again. "Sir Myles," said he, "the family of
Falworth is as good as any in Derbyshire. Just now it is poor and fallen
in estate, but if it is again placed in credit and honor, thou, who art
the son of the house, shalt have thy suit weighed with as much respect
and consideration as though thou wert my peer in all things, Such is my
answer. Art thou satisfied?"

"I could ask no more," answered Myles.