That night Myles lodged at Mackworth House. The next morning, as soon
as he had broken his fast, which he did in the privacy of his own
apartments, the Earl bade him and Gascoyne to make ready for the barge,
which was then waiting at the river stairs to take them to Scotland
Yard.

The Earl himself accompanied them, and as the heavy snub-nosed boat,
rowed by the six oarsmen in Mackworth livery, slid slowly and heavily
up against the stream, the Earl, leaning back in his cushioned seat,
pointed out the various inns of the great priests or nobles; palatial
town residences standing mostly a little distance back from the water
behind terraced high-walled gardens and lawns. Yon was the Bishop of
Exeter's Close; yon was the Bishop of Bath's; that was York House; and
that Chester Inn. So passing by gardens and lawns and palaces, they came
at last to Scotland Yard stairs, a broad flight of marble steps that led
upward to a stone platform above, upon which opened the gate-way of the
garden beyond.

The Scotland Yard of Myles Falworth's day was one of the more
pretentious and commodious of the palaces of the Strand. It took its
name from having been from ancient times the London inn which the
tributary Kings of Scotland occupied when on their periodical visits of
homage to England. Now, during this time of Scotland's independence, the
Prince of Wales had taken up his lodging in the old palace, and made it
noisy with the mad, boisterous mirth of his court.

As the watermen drew the barge close to the landing-place of the stairs,
the Earl stepped ashore, and followed by Myles and Gascoyne, ascended
to the broad gate-way of the river wall of the garden. Three men-at-arms
who lounged upon a bench under the shade of the little pent roof of a
guard-house beside the wall, arose and saluted as the well-known figure
of the Earl mounted the steps. The Earl nodded a cool answer, and
passing unchallenged through the gate, led the way up a pleached walk,
beyond which, as Myles could see, there stretched a little grassy lawn
and a stone-paved terrace. As the Earl and the two young men approached
the end of the walk, they were met by the sound of voices and laughter,
the clinking of glasses and the rattle of dishes. Turning a corner,
they came suddenly upon a party of young gentlemen, who sat at a late
breakfast under the shade of a wide-spreading lime-tree. They had
evidently just left the tilt-yard, for two of the guests--sturdy,
thick-set young knights--yet wore a part of their tilting armor.

Behind the merry scene stood the gray, hoary old palace, a steep flight
of stone steps, and a long, open, stone-arched gallery, which evidently
led to the kitchen beyond, for along it hurried serving-men, running up
and down the tall flight of steps, and bearing trays and dishes and cups
and flagons. It was a merry sight and a pleasant one. The day was warm
and balmy, and the yellow sunlight fell in waving uncertain patches of
light, dappling the table-cloth, and twinkling and sparkling upon the
dishes, cups, and flagons.

At the head of the table sat a young man some three or four years
older than Myles, dressed in a full suit of rich blue brocaded velvet,
embroidered with gold-thread and trimmed with black fur. His face, which
was turned towards them as they mounted from the lawn to the little
stone-flagged terrace, was frank and open; the cheeks smooth and fair;
the eyes dark and blue. He was tall and rather slight, and wore his
thick yellow hair hanging to his shoulders, where it was cut square
across, after the manner of the times. Myles did not need to be told
that it was the Prince of Wales.

"Ho, Gaffer Fox!" he cried, as soon as he caught sight of the Earl of
Mackworth, "what wind blows thee hither among us wild mallard drakes?
I warrant it is not for love of us, but only to fill thine own larder
after the manner of Sir Fox among the drakes. Whom hast thou with thee?
Some gosling thou art about to pluck?"

A sudden hush fell upon the company, and all faces were turned towards
the visitors.

The Earl bowed with a soft smile. "Your Highness," said he, smoothly,
"is pleased to be pleasant. Sir, I bring you the young knight of whom I
spoke to you some time since--Sir Myles Falworth. You may be pleased to
bring to mind that you so condescended as to promise to take him into
your train until the fitting time arrived for that certain matter of
which we spoke."

"Sir Myles," said the Prince of Wales, with a frank, pleasant smile, "I
have heard great reports of thy skill and prowess in France, both from
Mackworth and from others. It will pleasure me greatly to have thee in
my household; more especially," he added, "as it will get thee, callow
as thou art, out of my Lord Fox's clutches. Our faction cannot do
without the Earl of Mackworth's cunning wits, Sir Myles; ne'theless I
would not like to put all my fate and fortune into his hands without
bond. I hope that thou dost not rest thy fortunes entirely upon his aid
and countenance."

All who were present felt the discomfort of the Prince's speech, It was
evident that one of his mad, wild humors was upon him. In another case
the hare-brained young courtiers around might have taken their cue
from him, but the Earl of Mackworth was no subject for their gibes
and witticisms. A constrained silence fell, in which the Earl alone
maintained a perfect ease of manner.

Myles bowed to hide his own embarrassment. "Your Highness," said he,
evasively, "I rest my fortune, first of all, upon God, His strength and
justice."

"Thou wilt find safer dependence there than upon the Lord of Mackworth,"
said the Prince, dryly. "But come," he added, with a sudden change of
voice and manner, "these be jests that border too closely upon bitter
earnest for a merry breakfast. It is ill to idle with edged tools. Wilt
thou not stay and break thy fast with us, my Lord?"

"Pardon me, your Highness," said the Earl, bowing, and smiling the same
smooth smile his lips had worn from the first--such a smile as Myles
had never thought to have seen upon his haughty face; "I crave your good
leave to decline. I must return home presently, for even now, haply,
your uncle, his Grace of Winchester, is awaiting my coming upon the
business you wot of. Haply your Highness will find more joyance in a
lusty young knight like Sir Myles than in an old fox like myself. So I
leave him with you, in your good care."

Such was Myles's introduction to the wild young madcap Prince of Wales,
afterwards the famous Henry V, the conqueror of France.

For a month or more thereafter he was a member of the princely
household, and, after a little while, a trusted and honored member.
Perhaps it was the calm sturdy strength, the courage of the young
knight, that first appealed to the Prince's royal heart; perhaps
afterwards it was the more sterling qualities that underlaid that
courage that drew him to the young man; certain it was that in two weeks
Myles was the acknowledged favorite. He made no protestation of virtue;
he always accompanied the Prince in those madcap ventures to London,
where he beheld all manner of wild revelry; he never held himself aloof
from his gay comrades, but he looked upon all their mad sports with the
same calm gaze that had carried him without taint through the courts of
Burgundy and the Dauphin. The gay, roistering young lords and gentlemen
dubbed him Saint Myles, and jested with him about hair-cloth shirts
and flagellations, but witticism and jest alike failed to move Myles's
patient virtue; he went his own gait in the habits of his life, and in
so going knew as little as the others of the mad court that the Prince's
growing liking for him was, perhaps, more than all else, on account of
that very temperance.

Then, by-and-by, the Prince began to confide in him as he did in none of
the others. There was no great love betwixt the King and his son; it has
happened very often that the Kings of England have felt bitter jealousy
towards the heirs-apparent as they have grown in power, and such was the
case with the great King Henry IV. The Prince often spoke to Myles of
the clashing and jarring between himself and his father, and the thought
began to come to Myles's mind by degrees that maybe the King's jealousy
accounted not a little for the Prince's reckless intemperance.

Once, for instance, as the Prince leaned upon, his shoulder waiting,
whilst the attendants made ready the barge that was to carry them down
the river to the city, he said, abruptly: "Myles, what thinkest thou of
us all? Doth not thy honesty hold us in contempt?"

"Nay, Highness," said Myles. "How could I hold contempt?"

"Marry," said the Prince, "I myself hold contempt, and am not as honest
a man as thou. But, prithee, have patience with me, Myles. Some day,
perhaps, I too will live a clean life. Now, an I live seriously, the
King will be more jealous of me than ever, and that is not a little.
Maybe I live thus so that he may not know what I really am in soothly
earnest."

The Prince also often talked to Myles concerning his own affairs; of
the battle he was to fight for his father's honor, of how the Earl of
Mackworth had plotted and planned to bring him face to face with the
Earl of Alban. He spoke to Myles more than once of the many great
changes of state and party that hung upon the downfall of the enemy
of the house of Falworth, and showed him how no hand but his own could
strike that enemy down; if he fell, it must be through the son of
Falworth. Sometimes it seemed to Myles as though he and his blind father
were the centre of a great web of plot and intrigue, stretching far and
wide, that included not only the greatest houses of England, but royalty
and the political balance of the country as well, and even before the
greatness of it all he did not flinch.

Then, at last, came the beginning of the time for action. It was in the
early part of May, and Myles had been a member of the Prince's household
for a little over a month. One morning he was ordered to attend the
Prince in his privy cabinet, and, obeying the summons, he found the
Prince, his younger brother, the Duke of Bedford, and his uncle, the
Bishop of Winchester, seated at a table, where they had just been
refreshing themselves with a flagon of wine and a plate of wafers.

"My poor Myles," said the Prince, smiling, as the young knight bowed to
the three, and then stood erect, as though on duty. "It shames my heart,
brother--and thou, uncle--it shames my heart to be one privy to this
thing which we are set upon to do. Here be we, the greatest Lords of
England, making a cat's-paw of this lad--for he is only yet a boy--and
of his blind father, for to achieve our ends against Alban's faction. It
seemeth not over-honorable to my mind."

"Pardon me, your Highness," said Myles, blushing to the roots of his
hair; "but, an I may be so bold as to speak, I reck nothing of what your
aims may be; I only look to restoring my father's honor and the honor of
our house."

"Truly," said the Prince, smiling, "that is the only matter that maketh
me willing to lay my hands to this business. Dost thou know why I have
sent for thee? It is because this day thou must challenge the Duke of
Alban before the King. The Earl of Mackworth has laid all his plans and
the time is now ripe. Knowest that thy father is at Mackworth House?"

"Nay," said Myles; "I knew it not."

"He hath been there for nearly two days," said the Prince. "Just now the
Earl hath sent for us to come first to Mackworth House. Then to go
to the palace, for he hath gained audience with the King, and hath so
arranged it that the Earl of Alban is to be there as well. We all go
straightway; so get thyself ready as soon as may be."

Perhaps Myles's heart began beating more quickly within him at the
nearness of that great happening which he had looked forward to for so
long. If it did, he made no sign of his emotion, but only asked, "How
must I clothe myself, your Highness?"

"Wear thy light armor," said the Prince, "but no helmet, a juppon
bearing the arms and colors that the Earl gave thee when thou wert
knighted, and carry thy right-hand gauntlet under thy belt for thy
challenge. Now make haste, for time passes."