In the days of King Edward III a code of laws relating to trial by
battle had been compiled for one of his sons, Thomas of Woodstock. In
this work each and every detail, to the most minute, had been arranged
and fixed, and from that time judicial combats had been regulated in
accordance with its mandates.

It was in obedience to this code that Myles Falworth appeared at the
east gate of the lists (the east gate being assigned by law to the
challenger), clad in full armor of proof, attended by Gascoyne, and
accompanied by two of the young knights who had acted as his escort from
Scotland Yard.

At the barriers he was met by the attorney Willingwood, the chief lawyer
who had conducted the Falworth case before the High Court of Chivalry,
and who was to attend him during the administration of the oaths before
the King.

As Myles presented himself at the gate he was met by the Constable, the
Marshal, and their immediate attendants. The Constable, laying his hand
upon the bridle-rein, said, in a loud voice: "Stand, Sir Knight, and
tell me why thou art come thus armed to the gates of the lists. What is
thy name? Wherefore art thou come?"

Myles answered, "I am Myles Falworth, a Knight of the Bath by grace of
his Majesty King Henry IV and by his creation, and do come hither to
defend my challenge upon the body of William Bushy Brookhurst, Earl of
Alban, proclaiming him an unknightly knight and a false and perjured
liar, in that he hath accused Gilbert Reginald, Lord Falworth, of
treason against our beloved Lord, his Majesty the King, and may God
defend the right!"

As he ended speaking, the Constable advanced close to his side, and
formally raising the umbril of the helmet, looked him in the face.
Thereupon, having approved his identity, he ordered the gates to be
opened, and bade Myles enter the lists with his squire and his friends.

At the south side of the lists a raised scaffolding had been built for
the King and those who looked on. It was not unlike that which had
been erected at Devlen Castle when Myles had first jousted as belted
knight--here were the same raised seat for the King, the tapestries, the
hangings, the fluttering pennons, and the royal standard floating above;
only here were no fair-faced ladies looking down upon him, but instead,
stern-browed Lords and knights in armor and squires, and here were no
merry laughing and buzz of talk and flutter of fans and kerchiefs, but
all was very quiet and serious.

Myles riding upon his horse, with Gascoyne holding the bridle-rein,
and his attorney walking beside him with his hand upon the stirrups,
followed the Constable across the lists to an open space in front of the
seat where the King sat. Then, having reached his appointed station, he
stopped, and the Constable, advancing to the foot of the stair-way that
led to the dais above, announced in a loud voice that the challenger had
entered the lists.

"Then called the defendant straightway," said the King, "for noon
draweth nigh."

The day was very warm, and the sun, bright and unclouded, shone fiercely
down upon the open lists. Perhaps few men nowadays could bear the
scorching heat of iron plates such as Myles wore, from which the body
was only protected by a leathern jacket and hose. But men's bodies in
those days were tougher and more seasoned to hardships of weather than
they are in these our times. Myles thought no more of the burning
iron plates that incased him than a modern soldier thinks of his dress
uniform in warm weather. Nevertheless, he raised the umbril of his
helmet to cool his face as he waited the coming of his opponent. He
turned his eyes upward to the row of seats on the scaffolding above,
and even in the restless, bewildering multitude of strange faces turned
towards him recognized those that he knew: the Prince of Wales, his
companions of the Scotland Yard household, the Duke of Clarence,
the Bishop of Winchester, and some of the noblemen of the Earl of
Mackworth's party, who had been buzzing about the Prince for the past
month or so. But his glance swept over all these, rather perceiving
than seeing them, and then rested upon a square box-like compartment not
unlike a prisoner's dock in the courtroom of our day, for in the box sat
his father, with the Earl of Mackworth upon one side and Sir James Lee
upon the other. The blind man's face was very pale, but still wore its
usual expression of calm serenity--the calm serenity of a blind face.
The Earl was also very pale, and he kept his eyes fixed steadfastly upon
Myles with a keen and searching look, as though to pierce to the very
bottom of the young man's heart, and discover if indeed not one little
fragment of dryrot of fear or uncertainty tainted the solid courage of
his knighthood.

Then he heard the criers calling the defendant at the four corners of
the list: "Oyez! Oyez! Oyez! William Bushy Brookhurst, Earl of Alban,
come to this combat, in which you be enterprised this day to discharge
your sureties before the King, the Constable, and the Marshal, and to
encounter in your defence Myles Falworth, knight, the accepted champion
upon behalf of Gilbert Reginald Falworth, the challenger! Oyez! Oyez!
Oyez! Let the defendant come!"

So they continued calling, until, by the sudden turning of all faces,
Myles knew that his enemy was at hand.

Then presently he saw the Earl and his attendants enter the outer gate
at the west end of the barrier; he saw the Constable and Marshal meet
him; he saw the formal words of greeting pass; he saw the Constable
raise the umbril of the helmet. Then the gate opened, and the Earl of
Alban entered, clad cap-a-pie in a full suit of magnificent Milan armor
without juppon or adornment of any kind. As he approached across the
lists, Myles closed the umbril of his helmet, and then sat quite still
and motionless, for the time was come.

So he sat, erect and motionless as a statue of iron, half hearing the
reading of the long intricately-worded bills, absorbed in many thoughts
of past and present things. At last the reading ended, and then he
calmly and composedly obeyed, under the direction of his attorney,
the several forms and ceremonies that followed; answered the various
official questions, took the various oaths. Then Gascoyne, leading the
horse by the bridle-rein, conducted him back to his station at the east
end of the lists.

As the faithful friend and squire made one last and searching
examination of arms and armor, the Marshal and the clerk came to the
young champion and administered the final oath by which he swore that he
carried no concealed weapons.

The weapons allowed by the High Court were then measured and attested.
They consisted of the long sword, the short sword, the dagger, the mace,
and a weapon known as the hand-gisarm, or glave-lot--a heavy swordlike
blade eight palms long, a palm in breadth, and riveted to a stout handle
of wood three feet long.

The usual lance had not been included in the list of arms, the
hand-gisarm being substituted in its place. It was a fearful and
murderous weapon, though cumbersome, Unhandy, and ill adapted for quick
or dexterous stroke; nevertheless, the Earl of Alban had petitioned
the King to have it included in the list, and in answer to the King's
expressed desire the Court had adopted it in the stead of the lance,
yielding thus much to the royal wishes. Nor was it a small concession.
The hand-gisarm had been a weapon very much in vogue in King Richard's
day, and was now nearly if not entirely out of fashion with the younger
generation of warriors. The Earl of Alban was, of course, well used to
the blade; with Myles it was strange and new, either for attack or in
defence.

With the administration of the final oath and the examination of the
weapons, the preliminary ceremonies came to an end, and presently Myles
heard the criers calling to clear the lists. As those around him moved
to withdraw, the young knight drew off his mailed gauntlet, and gave
Gascoyne's hand one last final clasp, strong, earnest, and intense with
the close friendship of young manhood, and poor Gascoyne looked up at
him with a face ghastly white.

Then all were gone; the gates of the principal list and that of the
false list were closed clashing, and Myles was alone, face to face, with
his mortal enemy.