Title: Windows



Across the street lay a house. In that house was a window. In that window was a girl. And that girl spent long hours looking out at the world from her window.

On the other side of the street was another house. It also had a window. In that window was a boy. He also spent long hours looking out from his window. But, he spent most of these long hours looking out from his window and into the window across the street with the girl in it.

Then one day he went and knocked on the door in the house across the street.

The girl opened it and they both smiled.

Stars were birthed and universes formed in rolling cosmic thunder that echoes great, booming heartbeats. The great tides of the world lifted and rose like great lungs sucking in life. And the boy and girl kissed under a full moon on a warm summer night.

Years later they got married. The girl, who was now a woman, gave birth to a beautiful boy and they lived as a happy family for many years. Yes, there were fights. Yes, like anyone else, occasionally there was crying. But, for the most part, that man and that woman and their little boy lived happy.

But one day the baby boy, who was now a young man, moved out and into the big wide world.

Time passed and the woman and her husband grew old.

Stars cooled down as entropy spread chill through universes that began to forget the cosmic thunder and the dimming echoes of a heartbeat. The tides of the world lifted just a little less each time that rose against the shores. The air was getting dark and quiet.

Then one day the old man passed away. And, after the funeral, after the tears, and after all the family and friends had left, the old woman sat all alone in her old house looking out from her old window.

She would spend many hours looking out from that window rubbing her old, tired hands. She would spend many hours looking out that window thinking of that little boy who so many years ago knocked on her door.

But then one day there was no one in that window in that house on that street. One day it was empty and neither filled with longing nor happiness nor sadness. One day it was just quiet, the cosmic thunder and the tides had all gone out with the old woman.

And somewhere, somehow out there, the old man heard a knock on his door. He opened it. The old woman was standing there and they both smiled.